releases: add release note for v8.0.0 (#16599)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-8.0.0.md

---
title: TiDB 8.0.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 8.0.0.
---

# TiDB 8.0.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2024

TiDB version: 8.0.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v8.0.0#version-list)

8.0.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature/Enhancement</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="4">Scalability and Performance</td>

>     <td>Disaggregation of PD to improve scale (experimental)</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>Disaggregation of PD to improve scale (experimental) **tw@qiancai** <!--1553, 1558--></td></td>
```

    <td>PD (Placement Driver) has a lot of critical modules for the running of TiDB. Each module's resource consumption can increase as certain workloads scale, meaning they can each interfere with other functions in PD, ultimatley impacting quality of service of the cluster. 

> By separating PD modules into separately-deployable services, their blast radii are massively mitigated as the cluster scales. Much larger clusters with much larger workloads are possible with this architecture.</td>

Author: ```suggestion
By separating PD modules into separately-deployable services, their blast radii are massively mitigated as the cluster scales. Much larger clusters with much larger workloads are possible with this architecture. **tw@qiancai <!--1553, 1558--></td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>Pipelined DML for much larger transactions (experimental)</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>Pipelined DML for much larger transactions (experimental) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1694--></td></td>
```

    <td>Large batch DML jobs like huge cleanup jobs, joins, or aggregations can consume tons of memory and were previously limited at very large scales. Pipelined DML is a new feature meant for supporting large batch DML with transaction guarantees more efficiently and mitigating out-of-memory risks. When used for data loading, this is distinct from import, load, and restore operations. </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>Acceleration of cluster snapshot restore speed</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>Acceleration of cluster snapshot restore speed **tw@qiancai** <!--1681--></td>
```

    <td>An optimization to involve all TiKV nodes in the preparation step for cluster restores was introduced to leverage scale such that restore speeds for a cluster are much faster for larger sets of data on larger clusters. Real world tests exhibit restore acceleration of ~300% in slower cases.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>Enhanced stability of massive number of tables</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>Enhanced stability of massive number of tables **tw@hfxsd** <!--16408--></td>
```

>     <td>An optimization to involve all TiKV nodes in the preparation step for cluster restores was introduced to leverage scale such that restore speeds for a cluster are much faster for larger sets of data on larger clusters. Real world tests exhibit restore acceleration of ~300% in slower cases.</td>

Reviewer: @benmaoer. PTAL

    <td>SaaS companies using TiDB as the system of record for their multi-tenant applications require storing many tables. Prior to this release, so table counts on the order of a million or more were possible but were likely to degrade experience. 
Several enhancements were made in this version to mitigate that:

  - New information schema caching system that includes a lazy-loading LRU cache for table metadata and more memory-efficient handling of schema version changes.
  - Priority queue for auto-analyze, making auto-analyze less rigid and more stable across more tables</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="1">DB Operations and Observability</td>

>     <td>Index usage view</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>Index usage view **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1400--></td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>TiCDC adds support for Debezium format Protocol</td>
    <td>TiCDC can now publish replication events to a Kafka sink using a protocol that generates Debezium style messages.</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Feature details

### Scalability

* Feature summary [#issue-number](issue-link) @[pr-auorthor-id](author-link)

    Feature descriptions (including what the feature is, why it is valuable for users, and how to use this feature generally)

    For more information, see [documentation](doc-link).

### Performance

* Feature summary [#issue-number](issue-link) @[pr-auorthor-id](author-link)

    Feature descriptions (including what the feature is, why it is valuable for users, and how to use this feature generally)

    For more information, see [documentation](doc-link).

### Reliability

* Feature summary [#issue-number](issue-link) @[pr-auorthor-id](author-link)

    Feature descriptions (including what the feature is, why it is valuable for users, and how to use this feature generally)

    For more information, see [documentation](doc-link).

### SQL

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

* PITR supports Amazon S3 Object Lock [#51184](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51184) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR) **tw@lilin90** <!--1604-->

    Amazon S3 Object Lock can help prevent backup data from being accidentally or intentionally deleted during a specified retention period, enhancing the security and integrity of data. Starting from v6.3.0, BR supports Amazon S3 Object Lock in snapshot backups, adding an additional layer of security for full backups. Starting from v8.0.0, PITR also supports Amazon S3 Object Lock. Whether full backups or log data backups, the Object Lock feature ensures a more reliable data protection, further strengthening the security of data backup and recovery and meeting regulatory requirements.

    For more information, see [documentation](/br/backup-and-restore-storages.md#other-features-supported-by-the-storage-service).

```

    TiCDC can now publish replication events to a Kafka sink using a protocol that generates event messages using a Debezium style format. This helps to simplify the migration from MySQL to TiDB for users who are currently using Debezium to pull data from MySQL for downstream processing.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-debezium.md).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v7.6.0 to the current version (v8.0.0). If you are upgrading from v7.5.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

### Behavior changes

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
|        |                              |      |

### Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
|          |          |          |          |

## Deprecated features

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Starting from v8.0.0, the [`tidb_disable_txn_auto_retry`](/system-variables.md#tidb_disable_txn_auto_retry) system variable is deprecated, and TiDB no longer supports automatic retries of optimistic transactions. As an alternative, when encountering optimistic transaction conflicts, you can capture the error and retry transactions in your application, or use the [Pessimistic transaction mode](/pessimistic-transaction.md) instead. **tw@lilin90** <!--1671-->

```

    TiCDC can now publish replication events to a Kafka sink using a protocol that generates event messages using a Debezium style format. This helps to simplify the migration from MySQL to TiDB for users who are currently using Debezium to pull data from MySQL for downstream processing.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-debezium.md).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v7.6.0 to the current version (v8.0.0). If you are upgrading from v7.5.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

### Behavior changes

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
|        |                              |      |

### Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
|          |          |          |          |

## Deprecated features

> - Starting from v8.0.0, the [`tidb_disable_txn_auto_retry`](/system-variables.md#tidb_disable_txn_auto_retry) system variable is deprecated, and TiDB no longer supports automatic retries of optimistic transactions. As an alternative, when encountering optimistic transaction conflicts, you can capture the error and retry transactions in your application, or use the [Pessimistic transaction mode](/pessimistic-transaction.md) instead. **tw@lilin90** <!--1671-->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

- Starting from v8.0.0, the [`tidb_disable_txn_auto_retry`](/system-variables.md#tidb_disable_txn_auto_retry) system variable is deprecated, and TiDB no longer supports automatic retries of optimistic transactions. As an alternative, when encountering optimistic transaction conflicts, you can capture the error and retry transactions in your application, or use the [Pessimistic transaction mode](/pessimistic-transaction.md) instead. **tw@lilin90** <!--1671-->
```

By separating PD modules into separately-deployable services, their blast radii are massively mitigated as the cluster scales. Much larger clusters with much larger workloads are possible with this architecture.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Pipelined DML for much larger transactions (experimental) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1694--></td>
    <td>Large batch DML jobs like huge cleanup jobs, joins, or aggregations can consume tons of memory and were previously limited at very large scales. Pipelined DML is a new feature meant for supporting large batch DML with transaction guarantees more efficiently and mitigating out-of-memory risks. When used for data loading, this is distinct from import, load, and restore operations. </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Acceleration of cluster snapshot restore speed **tw@qiancai** <!--1681--></td>
    <td>An optimization to involve all TiKV nodes in the preparation step for cluster restores was introduced to leverage scale such that restore speeds for a cluster are much faster for larger sets of data on larger clusters. Real world tests exhibit restore acceleration of ~300% in slower cases.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>Enhanced stability of massive number of tables **tw@hfxsd** <!--16408--></td>
>     <td>SaaS companies using TiDB as the system of record for their multi-tenant applications require storing many tables. Prior to this release, so table counts on the order of a million or more were possible but were likely to degrade experience.
> Several enhancements were made in this version to mitigate that:
> 
>   - New information schema caching system that includes a lazy-loading LRU cache for table metadata and more memory-efficient handling of schema version changes.
>   - Priority queue for auto-analyze, making auto-analyze less rigid and more stable across more tables</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>Enhanced stability of a massive number of tables **tw@hfxsd** <!--16408--></td>
    <td>SaaS companies using TiDB as the system of record for their multi-tenant applications require storing many tables. Prior to this release, so table counts on the order of a million or more were possible but were likely to degrade experience. TiDB v8.0.0 make the following enhancements:
  <ul>
    <li>- New information schema caching system that includes a lazy-loading LRU cache for table metadata and more memory-efficient handling of schema version changes.</li>
    <li>- Priority queue for `auto analyze`, making `auto analyze` less rigid and more stable across more tables.</li>
  </ul>
    </td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="1">DB Operations and Observability</td>
    <td>Index usage view **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1400--></td>
    <td>TiDB adds a new system table for viewing the usage statistics of indexes, ultimately helping users to evaluate the importance (or lack thereof) of all indexes.</td>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">Data Migration</td>

>     <td>TiCDC supports replicating DDL statements in bi-directional replication (BDR) mode (GA)</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>TiCDC supports replicating DDL statements in bi-directional replication (BDR) mode (GA) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1682/1689--></td>
```

>     <td>TiCDC supports replicating DDL statements in bi-directional replication (BDR) mode (GA)</td>
>     <td>With this feature, TiCDC allows for a cluster to be assigned the PRIMARY BDR role, and enables the replication of DDL statements from that cluster to the downstream cluster</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>TiCDC supports replicating DDL statements in bi-directional replication (BDR) mode (GA) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1682/1689--></td>
    <td>With this feature, TiCDC allows for a cluster to be assigned the `PRIMARY` BDR role, and enables the replication of DDL statements from that cluster to the downstream cluster.</td>
```

    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>TiCDC adds support for the Simple protocol</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>TiCDC adds support for the Simple protocol **tw@lilin90** <!--1646--></td>
```

    <td>TiCDC introduces support for a new protocol, the Simple protocol. This protocol includes support for in-band schema tracking capabilities.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>TiCDC adds support for the Debezium format protocol</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>TiCDC adds support for the Debezium format protocol **tw@lilin90** <!--1652--></td>
```

>     <td>TiCDC adds support for Simple Protocol</td>
>     <td>TiCDC introduces support for a new protocol, the Simple Protocol. This new protocol includes support for in-band schema tracking capabilities.</td>
>   </tr>
>   <tr>
>     <td>TiCDC adds support for Debezium format Protocol</td>
>     <td>TiCDC can now publish replication events to a Kafka sink using a protocol that generates Debezium style messages.</td>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <td>TiCDC adds support for the Simple protocol</td>
    <td>TiCDC introduces support for a new protocol, the Simple protocol. This protocol includes support for in-band schema tracking capabilities.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>TiCDC adds support for the Debezium format protocol</td>
    <td>TiCDC can now publish replication events to a Kafka sink using a protocol that generates Debezium style messages.</td>
```

  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Feature details

### Scalability

* Feature summary [#issue-number](issue-link) @[pr-auorthor-id](author-link)

    Feature descriptions (including what the feature is, why it is valuable for users, and how to use this feature generally)

    For more information, see [documentation](doc-link).

### Performance

> * Feature summary [#issue-number](issue-link) @[pr-auorthor-id](author-link)
> 
>     Feature descriptions (including what the feature is, why it is valuable for users, and how to use this feature generally)
> 
>     For more information, see [documentation](doc-link).

Author: ```suggestion
* Automatic statistics update introduces priority queues [#50132](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50132) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1640-->

    维持优化器统计信息的时效性是稳定数据库性能的关键，绝大多数用户依赖 TiDB 提供的[自动统计信息收集](/statistics.md#自动更新)来保持统计信息的更新。自动统计信息收集轮询所有对象的统计信息状态，并把健康度不足的对象加入队列，逐个收集并更新。在过去的版本中，收集顺序是随机设置的，这可能造成更有收集价值的对象需要长时间等待才被更新，引发潜在的数据库性能回退。

    从 v8.0.0 开始，自动统计信息收集会结合多种条件为对象动态设置优先级，确保更有收集价值的对象优先被处理，比如新创建的索引、发生分区变更的分区表等，健康度更低的对象也会倾向于排在队列前端。该增强提升了收集顺序的合理性，能减少一部分统计信息过旧引发的性能问题，因此提升了数据库稳定性。
    
    For more information, see [documentation](/statistics.md#automatic-update).
```

### Reliability

* Feature summary [#issue-number](issue-link) @[pr-auorthor-id](author-link)

    Feature descriptions (including what the feature is, why it is valuable for users, and how to use this feature generally)

    For more information, see [documentation](doc-link).

### SQL

> * Feature summary [#issue-number](issue-link) @[pr-auorthor-id](author-link)
> 
>     Feature descriptions (including what the feature is, why it is valuable for users, and how to use this feature generally)
> 
>     For more information, see [documentation](doc-link).

Author: ```suggestion
* TiDB 建表时，支持更多的表达式来设置列的默认值（实验特性）[#50936](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50936) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1690-->

    在 v8.0.0 之前，在建表时，列默认值只能为固定的字符串、数字、以及日期。从 v8.0.0 开始，支持将部分表达式作为列的默认值，如将列的默认值设置为 `UUID()`，从而来满足用户多样化的业务需求。
    
    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/data-type-default-values.md#specify-expressions-as-default-values)。
```

### DB operations

* PITR supports Amazon S3 Object Lock [#51184](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51184) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR) **tw@lilin90** <!--1604-->

    Amazon S3 Object Lock can help prevent backup data from being accidentally or intentionally deleted during a specified retention period, enhancing the security and integrity of data. Starting from v6.3.0, BR supports Amazon S3 Object Lock in snapshot backups, adding an additional layer of security for full backups. Starting from v8.0.0, PITR also supports Amazon S3 Object Lock. Whether full backups or log data backups, the Object Lock feature ensures a more reliable data protection, further strengthening the security of data backup and recovery and meeting regulatory requirements.

    For more information, see [documentation](/br/backup-and-restore-storages.md#other-features-supported-by-the-storage-service).

> * Feature summary [#issue-number](issue-link) @[pr-auorthor-id](author-link)
> 
>     Feature descriptions (including what the feature is, why it is valuable for users, and how to use this feature generally)
> 
>     For more information, see [documentation](doc-link).

Author: ```suggestion
* Support for writing general logs to a separate file [#51248](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51248) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1632-->

    The general log is a MySQL-compatible feature. When you enable it, it logs all SQL statements executed by the database to help you diagnose problems. TiDB also supports this feature. You can enable it by setting the variable [`tidb_general_log`](/system-variables.md#tidb_general_log). However, in previous versions, the content of general logs can only be written to the TiDB instance log together with other information, which is not friendly to keep it for a long time.

    Starting from v8.0.0, you can enable TiDB to write the general log to a specified file by setting the configuration item [`log.general-log-file`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#general-log-file) to a valid filename. The general log also conforms to the same polling and saving policies for instance logs.

    In addition, to reduce the amount of disk space taken up by history log files, TiDB supports a native log compression option in v8.0.0. You can set the configuration item [`log.file.compression`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#compression) to `gzip`, and the polled history logs will be automatically compressed in [`gzip`](https://www.gzip.org/) format.

    For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-configuration-file.md#general-log-file).
```

### Observability

* Feature summary [#issue-number](issue-link) @[pr-auorthor-id](author-link)

    Feature descriptions (including what the feature is, why it is valuable for users, and how to use this feature generally)

    For more information, see [documentation](doc-link).

### Data migration

> * TiCDC supports replicating DDL statements in bi-directional replication (BDR) mode (GA) [#10301](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10301) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1682-->

Author: ```suggestion
* TiCDC supports replicating DDL statements in bi-directional replication (BDR) mode (GA) [#10301](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10301) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1689/1682-->
```

>     General Availability since v8.0.0, TiCDC supports replication of DDL statements with bi-directional replication configured. Previously, replicating DDL statements was not supported by TiCDC, so users of TiCDC's bi-directional replication had to apply DDL statements to both TiDB clusters separately. With this feature, TiCDC allows for a cluster to be assigned the PRIMARY BDR role, and enables the replication of DDL statements from that cluster to the downstream cluster.
> 
>     For more information, see [documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/ticdc-bidirectional-replication).

Author: ```suggestion
    Replicating DDL statements in BDR mode introduced in v7.6.0 has become GA. TiCDC supports replication of DDL statements with bi-directional replication configured. Previously, replicating DDL statements was not supported by TiCDC, so users of TiCDC's bi-directional replication had to apply DDL statements to both TiDB clusters separately. With this feature, TiCDC allows for a cluster to be assigned the PRIMARY BDR role, and enables the replication of DDL statements from that cluster to the downstream cluster. 

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-bidirectional-replication.md).
```

> * TiCDC adds support for Simple Protocol [#9898](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9898) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

Author: ```suggestion
* TiCDC adds support for Simple Protocol [#9898](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9898) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand) **tw@lilin90** <!--1646-->
```

> * TiCDC adds support for Simple Protocol [#9898](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9898) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand) **tw@lilin90** <!--1646-->
> 
>     TiCDC introduces support for a new protocol, the Simple protocol. This new protocol includes support for in-band schema tracking capabilities.
> 
>     For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-simple-protocol.md).
> 
> * TiCDC adds support for Debezium format Protocol [#1799](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/1799) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish) **tw@lilin90** <!--1652-->
> 
>     TiCDC can now publish replication events to a Kafka sink using a protocol that generates event messages using a Debezium style format. This helps to simplify the migration from MySQL to TiDB for users who are currently using Debezium to pull data from MySQL for downstream processing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* TiCDC adds support for the Simple protocol [#9898](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9898) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand) **tw@lilin90** <!--1646-->

    TiCDC introduces support for a new protocol, the Simple protocol. This protocol includes support for in-band schema tracking capabilities.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-simple-protocol.md).

* TiCDC adds support for the Debezium format protocol [#1799](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/1799) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish) **tw@lilin90** <!--1652-->

    TiCDC can now publish replication events to a Kafka sink using a protocol that generates event messages in a Debezium style format. This helps to simplify the migration from MySQL to TiDB for users who are currently using Debezium to pull data from MySQL for downstream processing.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-debezium.md).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v7.6.0 to the current version (v8.0.0). If you are upgrading from v7.5.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

### Behavior changes

> 

Author: ```suggestion

* 在开启 `tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg` 实现索引加速功能时，编码后的索引键值 ingest 数据到 TiKV 时使用的是固定并发值 (`16`)，无法根据下游 TiKV 的承载能力动态调整。从 v8.0.0 开始，支持使用 [`tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt-从-v800-版本开始引入) 调整并发。该参数默认值为 `4`，相比之前的默认值 `16`，在 ingest 索引键值对时性能会比之前的版本有所降低。你可以根据集群的负载按需调整该参数。**tw@hfxsd** <!--no FD-->

When you enable `tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg` for index acceleration, the encoded index key ingests data to TiKV using a fixed concurrency value (`16`), which cannot be dynamically adjusted according to the downstream TiKV capacity. Starting from v8.0.0, you can adjust concurrency using [`tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt-introduced from -v800- release). The default value of this variable is `4`. Compared to the previous default value of `16`, the new default value reduces performance when ingesting indexed key-value pairs. You can adjust this system variable based on the load of the cluster.

```

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
|        |                              |      |

### Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
|          |          |          |          |

## Deprecated features

- Starting from v8.0.0, the [`tidb_disable_txn_auto_retry`](/system-variables.md#tidb_disable_txn_auto_retry) system variable is deprecated, and TiDB no longer supports automatic retries of optimistic transactions. As an alternative, when encountering optimistic transaction conflicts, you can capture the error and retry transactions in your application, or use the [Pessimistic transaction mode](/pessimistic-transaction.md) instead. **tw@lilin90** <!--1671-->

> 

Author: ```suggestion
- Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB no longer supports the TLSv1.0 and TLSv1.1 protocols. You must upgrade TLS to TLSv1.2 or TLSv1.3.

```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/system-variables#tidb_dml_type-new-in-v800">Bulk DML for much larger transactions (experimental)</a>**tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1694--></td>
    <td>Large batch DML jobs, such as extensive cleanup jobs, joins, or aggregations, can consume a significant amount of memory and have previously been limited at very large scales. Bulk DML (<code>tidb_dml_type = "bulk"</code>) is a new DML type for handling large batch DML tasks more efficiently while providing transaction guarantees and mitigating OOM issues. This feature differs from import, load, and restore operations when used for data loading.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Acceleration of cluster snapshot restore speed **tw@qiancai** <!--1681--></td>
    <td>An optimization to involve all TiKV nodes in the preparation step for cluster restores was introduced to leverage scale such that restore speeds for a cluster are much faster for larger sets of data on larger clusters. Real world tests exhibit restore acceleration of ~300% in slower cases.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/system-variables#tidb_schema_cache_size-new-in-v800">Enhanced stability of a massive number of tables </a>**tw@hfxsd** <!--16408--></td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/system-variables#tidb_schema_cache_size-new-in-v800">Enhanced stability of a massive number of tables (experimental)</a>**tw@hfxsd** <!--16408--></td>
```

    <td>SaaS companies using TiDB as the system of record for their multi-tenant applications often need to store a substantial number of tables. In previous versions, handling table counts in the order of a million or more was feasible, but it had the potential to degrade the overall user experience. TiDB v8.0.0 improves the situation with the following enhancements:
  <ul>

>     <li>- Introduce a new information schema caching system, incorporating a lazy-loading Least Recently Used (LRU) cache for table metadata and more efficiently managing schema version changes.</li>

Author: ```suggestion
    <li>- Introduce a new schema information caching system, incorporating a lazy-loading Least Recently Used (LRU) cache for table metadata and more efficiently managing schema version changes.</li>
```

>     <li>- Implement a priority queue for `auto analyze`, making the process less rigid and enhancing stability across a wider array of tables.</li>

Author: ```suggestion
    <li>- Implement a <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/system-variables#tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue-new-in-v800">priority queue</a> for `auto analyze`, making the process less rigid and enhancing stability across a wider array of tables.</li>
```

  </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="1">DB Operations and Observability</td>
    <td>Support monitoring index usage statistics **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1400--></td>
    <td>TiDB v8.0.0 introduces the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/information-schema-tidb-index-usage"><code>INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIDB_INDEX_USAGE</code></a> table and the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/sys-schema.md"><code>sys.schema_unused_index</code></a> view to provide usage statistics of indexes. This feature help you assess the importance of all indexes and optimize the index design.</td>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">Data Migration</td>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/ticdc-bidirectional-replication">TiCDC supports replicating DDL statements in bi-directional replication (BDR) mode (GA) </a>**tw@hfxsd** <!--1682/1689--></td>

>     <td>With this feature, TiCDC allows for a cluster to be assigned the `PRIMARY` BDR role, and enables the replication of DDL statements from that cluster to the downstream cluster.</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>With this feature, TiCDC allows for a cluster to be assigned the <code>PRIMARY</code> BDR role, and enables the replication of DDL statements from that cluster to the downstream cluster.</td>
```

    Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB supports a DML type for handling a large amount of data. This DML type writes data to TiKV in a timely manner during execution, avoiding the continuous storage of all transaction data in memory, and thus supports handling a large amount of data that exceeds the memory limit. This DML type ensures transaction integrity and uses the same syntax as standard DML. `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, `REPLACE`, and `DELETE` statements can use this new DML type to execute large-scale DML operations.

    This DML type is implemented by the [Pipelined DML](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/blob/master/docs/design/2024-01-09-pipelined-DML.md) feature and only takes effect on statements with auto-commit enabled. You can control whether to enable this DML type by setting the system variable [`tidb_dml_type`](/system-variables.md#tidb_dml_type-new-in-v800).

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_dml_type-new-in-v800).

> * Support using more expressions to set the default values for columns when creating a table (experimental) [#50936](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50936) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1690-->

Author: ```suggestion
* Support using some expressions to set the default values for columns when creating a table (experimental) [#50936](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50936) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1690-->
```

    
    For more information, see [documentation](/data-type-default-values.md#specify-expressions-as-default-values).

### DB operations

* PITR supports Amazon S3 Object Lock [#51184](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51184) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR) **tw@lilin90** <!--1604-->

    Amazon S3 Object Lock can help prevent backup data from being accidentally or intentionally deleted during a specified retention period, enhancing the security and integrity of data. Starting from v6.3.0, BR supports Amazon S3 Object Lock in snapshot backups, adding an additional layer of security for full backups. Starting from v8.0.0, PITR also supports Amazon S3 Object Lock. Whether full backups or log data backups, the Object Lock feature ensures a more reliable data protection, further strengthening the security of data backup and recovery and meeting regulatory requirements.

    For more information, see [documentation](/br/backup-and-restore-storages.md#other-features-supported-by-the-storage-service).

> * Support making invisible indexes visible at the session level [#issue号](链接) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1401-->

Author: Add the issue number.

>     By default, the optimizer does not select [invisible indexes](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#invisible-index) to optimize query execution. This mechanism is usually used to evaluate whether to delete an index. If there is uncertainty about whether deleting an index could degrade performance, you can set the index to invisible first and then quickly restore it to visible when necessary.

Author: ```suggestion
    By default, the optimizer does not select [invisible indexes](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#invisible-index) to optimize query execution. This mechanism is usually used to evaluate whether to delete an index. If there is uncertainty about the potential performance impact of deleting an index, you have the option to set the index to invisible temporarily and promptly restore it to visible when needed.
```

    * The cumulative execution count of statements that scan the index
    * The total number of rows scanned when accessing the index
    * The selectivity distribution when scanning the index
    * The time of the most recent access to the index

  With this information, you can identify indexes that are not used by the optimizer and indexes with poor filtering effects, thereby optimizing index design to improve database performance.
  
    Additionally, TiDB v8.0.0 introduces a view [`sys.schema_unused_index`](/sys-schema.md), which is compatible with MySQL. This view records indexes that have not been used since the last start of TiDB. For clusters upgraded from versions earlier than v8.0.0, the `sys` schema and the views in it are not created automatically. You can manually create them by referring to [`sys`](/sys-schema.md).

    For more information, see [documentation](/information-schema/information-schema-tidb-index-usage.md).

### Data migration

* TiCDC supports replicating DDL statements in bi-directional replication (BDR) mode (GA) [#10301](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10301) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1689/1682-->

>     TiDB v7.6.0 introduces replicating DDL statements in BDR mode. Previously, replicating DDL statements was not supported by TiCDC, so users of TiCDC bi-directional replication had to apply DDL statements to both TiDB clusters separately. With this feature, TiCDC allows for a cluster to be assigned the `PRIMARY` BDR role, and enables the replication of DDL statements from that cluster to the downstream cluster. In v8.0.0, this feature becomes GA.

Author: ```suggestion
    TiDB v7.6.0 introduces replicating DDL statements in BDR mode as an experimental feature. Previously, replicating DDL statements was not supported by TiCDC, so users of TiCDC bi-directional replication had to apply DDL statements to both TiDB clusters separately. With this feature, TiCDC allows for a cluster to be assigned the `PRIMARY` BDR role, and enables the replication of DDL statements from that cluster to the downstream cluster. In v8.0.0, this feature becomes GA.
```

### MySQL compatibility 

* The `KEY` partition type supports statements with empty list of partition fields, which is consistent with the behavior of MySQL. **tw@hfxsd** <!--No FD-->

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
|        |                              |      |

### Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
|          |          |          |          |

## Deprecated features

- Starting from v8.0.0, the [`tidb_disable_txn_auto_retry`](/system-variables.md#tidb_disable_txn_auto_retry) system variable is deprecated, and TiDB no longer supports automatic retries of optimistic transactions. As an alternative, when encountering optimistic transaction conflicts, you can capture the error and retry transactions in your application, or use the [Pessimistic transaction mode](/pessimistic-transaction.md) instead. **tw@lilin90** <!--1671-->
- Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB no longer supports the TLSv1.0 and TLSv1.1 protocols. You must upgrade TLS to TLSv1.2 or TLSv1.3.

## Improvements

> 

Author: ```suggestion

+ Tools

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)
    
        - `MariaDB` 主从复制的场景，即 `MariaDB_主实例` -> `MariaDB_从实例` -> `DM` -> `TiDB` 的迁移场景，当 `gtid_strict_mode = off`，且 `Mariadb_从实例`的 GTID 不严格递增时（比如有业务数据在写 `MariaDB_从实例` ），此时 DM 任务会报错 `less than global checkpoint position`。从 v8.0.0 开始，TiDB 兼容该场景，数据可以正常迁移到下游。 [#10741](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10741) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1683-->
        
```

---
title: TiDB 8.0.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 8.0.0.
---

# TiDB 8.0.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2024

TiDB version: 8.0.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v8.0.0#version-list)

8.0.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature/Enhancement</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="4">Scalability and Performance</td>
    <td>Disaggregation of PD to improve scale (experimental) **tw@qiancai** <!--1553, 1558--></td>

>     <td>PD (Placement Driver) has a lot of critical modules for the running of TiDB. Each module's resource consumption can increase as certain workloads scale, meaning they can each interfere with other functions in PD, ultimately impacting quality of service of the cluster. By separating PD modules into separately-deployable services, their blast radii are massively mitigated as the cluster scales. Much larger clusters with much larger workloads are possible with this architecture.</td>

Reviewer: @easonn7, PTAL at the above highlight from @samhld

---
title: TiDB 8.0.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 8.0.0.
---

# TiDB 8.0.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2024

TiDB version: 8.0.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v8.0.0#version-list)

8.0.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature/Enhancement</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="4">Scalability and Performance</td>
    <td>Disaggregation of PD to improve scale (experimental) **tw@qiancai** <!--1553, 1558--></td>

>     <td>PD (Placement Driver) has a lot of critical modules for the running of TiDB. Each module's resource consumption can increase as certain workloads scale, meaning they can each interfere with other functions in PD, ultimately impacting quality of service of the cluster.
> By separating PD modules into separately-deployable services, their blast radii are massively mitigated as the cluster scales. Much larger clusters with much larger workloads are possible with this architecture.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <td>PD (Placement Driver) has a lot of critical modules for the running of TiDB. Each module's resource consumption can increase as certain workloads scale, meaning they can each interfere with other functions in PD, ultimately impacting quality of service of the cluster. By separating PD modules into separately-deployable services, their blast radii are massively mitigated as the cluster scales. Much larger clusters with much larger workloads are possible with this architecture.</td>
```

### Behavior changes

* When you enable `tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg` for index acceleration, the encoded index key ingests data to TiKV with fixed concurrency (`16`), which cannot be dynamically adjusted according to the downstream TiKV capacity. Starting from v8.0.0, you can adjust concurrency using the [`tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt-new-in-v800) system variable. The default value is `4`. Compared with the previous default value of `16`, the new default value reduces performance when ingesting indexed key-value pairs. You can adjust this system variable based on the workload of the cluster. **tw@hfxsd** <!--no FD-->

### MySQL compatibility 

* The `KEY` partition type supports statements with empty list of partition fields, which is consistent with the behavior of MySQL. **tw@hfxsd** <!--No FD-->

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|

> | [`initial-scan-rate-limit``](/system-variables.md#initial-scan-rate-limit-new-in-v620) | Modified | Add a limit of `1MiB` as the minimum value. |
> | [`tidb_redact_log`](/system-variables.md#tidb_redact_log) | Modified | 控制在记录 TiDB 日志和慢日志时如何处理 SAL 文本中的用户信息，可选值为 `OFF`、`ON`、`MARKER`，以分别支持记录信息明文、信息屏蔽、信息标记。当变量值为 `MARKER` 时，日志中的用户信息将被标记处理，可以在之后决定是否对日志信息进行脱敏。 |
> | [`tidb_low_resolution_tso_update_interval`](/system-variables.md#tidb_low_resolution_tso_update_interval-从-v800-版本开始引入) | Newly added | 设置更新 TiDB [缓存 timestamp](system-variables#tidb_low_resolution_tso) 的间隔。 |
> | [`tidb_opt_use_invisible_indexes`](/system-variables.md#) | Newly added | 控制会话中是否能够选择[不可见索引](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#不可见索引)。当修改变量为`ON`时，针对该会话执行的查询，优化能够使用[不可见索引](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#不可见索引)进行优化。|
> |  [`tidb_schema_cache_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_schema_cache_size-从-v800-版本开始引入)      |   Newly added                           |  设置缓存 schema 信息可以使用的内存上限，避免占用过多的内存。开启该功能后，将使用 LRU 算法来缓存所需的表，有效减小 schema 信息占用的内存。    |

Author: ```suggestion
| [`initial-scan-rate-limit`](/system-variables.md#initial-scan-rate-limit-new-in-v620) | Modified | Add a limit of `1MiB` as the minimum value. |
| [`tidb_redact_log`](/system-variables.md#tidb_redact_log) | Modified | Controls how to handle user information in SAL text when logging TiDB logs and slow logs. Values can be `OFF`, `ON`, and `MARKER` to support logging of information in plain text, information masking, and information marking, respectively. When the value of the variable is `MARKER`, the user information in the log will be marked for processing, and you can decide later whether to desensitize the log information. |
| [`tidb_low_resolution_tso_update_interval`](/system-variables.md#tidb_low_resolution_tso_update_interval-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls the interval for updating TiDB [cache timestamp](/system-variables.md#tidb_low_resolution_tso). |
| [`tidb_opt_use_invisible_indexes`](/system-variables.md#) | Newly added | 控制会话中是否能够选择[不可见索引](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#不可见索引)。当修改变量为`ON`时，针对该会话执行的查询，优化能够使用[不可见索引](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#不可见索引)进行优化。|
|  [`tidb_schema_cache_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_schema_cache_size-new-in-v800)      |   Newly added                           |  Controls the upper limit of memory that can be used for caching the schema information to avoid occupying too much memory. When this feature is enabled, the LRU algorithm is used to cache the required tables, effectively reducing the memory occupied by schema information.    |
```

---
title: TiDB 8.0.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 8.0.0.
---

# TiDB 8.0.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2024

TiDB version: 8.0.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v8.0.0#version-list)

8.0.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature/Enhancement</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="4">Scalability and Performance</td>
    <td>Disaggregation of PD to improve scale (experimental) **tw@qiancai** <!--1553, 1558--></td>

>     <td>PD (Placement Driver) has a lot of critical modules for the running of TiDB. Each module's resource consumption can increase as certain workloads scale, meaning they can each interfere with other functions in PD, ultimately impacting quality of service of the cluster. By separating PD modules into separately-deployable services, their blast radii are massively mitigated as the cluster scales. Much larger clusters with much larger workloads are possible with this architecture.</td>

Reviewer: @samhld, PTAL, thanks

    Maintaining the up-to-date nature of optimizer statistics is critical to stabilizing database performance. Most users rely on the [automatic statistics update](/statistics.md#automatic-update) provided by TiDB to keep statistics up-to-date. Automatic statistics update polls the status of statistics for all objects, and adds objects with insufficient health to a queue that is collected and updated one by one. In previous versions, the collection order is set randomly, which can result in longer waits for more worthy objects to be updated, causing potential database performance rollbacks.

    Starting from v8.0.0, automatic statistics update dynamically sets priorities for objects in combination with a variety of conditions to ensure that more valuable objects for collection are processed first, such as newly created indexes and partitioned tables with partition changes. Less healthy objects tend to be placed at the front of the queue. This enhancement improves the reasonableness of the collection order, and reduces performance problems caused by outdated statistics, therefore improving database stability.
    

>     For more information, see [documentation](/statistics.md#automatic-update).

Author: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue-new-in-v800).
```

### Behavior changes

* When you enable `tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg` for index acceleration, the encoded index key ingests data to TiKV with fixed concurrency (`16`), which cannot be dynamically adjusted according to the downstream TiKV capacity. Starting from v8.0.0, you can adjust concurrency using the [`tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt-new-in-v800) system variable. The default value is `4`. Compared with the previous default value of `16`, the new default value reduces performance when ingesting indexed key-value pairs. You can adjust this system variable based on the workload of the cluster. **tw@hfxsd** <!--no FD-->

### MySQL compatibility 

* The `KEY` partition type supports statements with empty list of partition fields, which is consistent with the behavior of MySQL. **tw@hfxsd** <!--No FD-->

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|

> | [`initial-scan-rate-limit`](/system-variables.md#initial-scan-rate-limit-new-in-v620) | Modified | Add a limit of `1MiB` as the minimum value. |

Author: ```suggestion
| `tidb_ddl_version` | Deleted | Controls whether to enable TiDB DDL V2. Starting from v8.0.0, this variable is replaced by [`tidb_enable_fast_create_table`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_create_table-new-in-v800). |
| [`initial-scan-rate-limit`](/system-variables.md#initial-scan-rate-limit-new-in-v620) | Modified | Add a limit of `1MiB` as the minimum value. |
```

| [`tidb_enable_collect_execution_info`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_collect_execution_info) | Modified | Adds a control to whether to record the [usage statistics of indexes](/information-schema/information-schema-tidb-index-usage.md). The default value is `ON`. |
| [`tidb_redact_log`](/system-variables.md#tidb_redact_log) | Modified | Controls how to handle user information in SAL text when logging TiDB logs and slow logs. Values can be `OFF`, `ON`, and `MARKER` to support logging of information in plain text, information masking, and information marking, respectively. When the value of the variable is `MARKER`, the user information in the log will be marked for processing, and you can decide later whether to desensitize the log information. |

> | [`tidb_dml_type`](/system-variables.md#tidb_dml_type-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls the execution mode of DML statements. The value options are `"standard"` and `"bulk"`. |

Author: ```suggestion
| [`div_precision_increment`](/system-variables.md#div_precision_increment-new-in-v800) | Newly added | control the number of decimal places in the result of a division operation `/` performed using the operator. |
| [`tidb_dml_type`](/system-variables.md#tidb_dml_type-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls the execution mode of DML statements. The value options are `"standard"` and `"bulk"`. |
```

> | [`tidb_low_resolution_tso_update_interval`](/system-variables.md#tidb_low_resolution_tso_update_interval-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls the interval for updating TiDB [cache timestamp](/system-variables.md#tidb_low_resolution_tso). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_low_resolution_tso_update_interval`](/system-variables.md#tidb_low_resolution_tso_update_interval-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls the interval for updating TiDB [cache timestamp](/system-variables.md#tidb_low_resolution_tso). |
| [`tidb_enable_concurrent_hashagg_spill`]((/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_concurrent_hashagg_spill-从-v800-版本开始引入)) | 新增 | 控制 TiDB 是否支持并发 HashAgg 进行落盘。当该变量设置为 `ON` 时，并发 HashAgg 将支持落盘。该变量将在功能正式发布时废弃。 |
```

| [`tidb_opt_use_invisible_indexes`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_use_invisible_indexes-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls whether the optimizer can select [invisible indexes](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#invisible-index) for query optimization in the current session. When the variable is set to `ON`, the optimizer can select invisible indexes for query optimization in the session. |
|  [`tidb_schema_cache_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_schema_cache_size-new-in-v800)      |   Newly added                           |  Controls the upper limit of memory that can be used for caching the schema information to avoid occupying too much memory. When this feature is enabled, the LRU algorithm is used to cache the required tables, effectively reducing the memory occupied by schema information.    |

### Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |

> | TiDB  |  [`instance.tidb_enable_collect_execution_info`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#tidb_enable_collect_execution_info) | Modified | Adds a control to whether to record the [usage statistics of indexes](/information-schema/information-schema-tidb-index-usage.md). The default value is `true`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| TiDB  |  [`instance.tidb_enable_collect_execution_info`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#tidb_enable_collect_execution_info) | Modified | Adds a control to whether to record the [usage statistics of indexes](/information-schema/information-schema-tidb-index-usage.md). The default value is `true`. |
| TiDB | [`tls-version`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#tls-version) | 修改 | 该参数不再支持 `"TLSv1.0"` 和 `"TLSv1.1"`，只支持 `"TLSv1.2"` 和 `"TLSv1.3"`。   |
| TiKV | [`raftstore.store-io-pool-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#store-io-pool-size-从-v530-版本开始引入) | 修改 | 为了提升 TiKV 性能，该参数默认值从 `0` 修改为 `1`，表示 StoreWriter 线程池的大小默认为 `1`。|
| TiDB Lightning  |  [`tikv-importer.duplicate-resolution`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-physical-import-mode-usage.md#旧版冲突检测从-v800-开始已被废弃)  | 废弃 | 用于在物理导入模式下设置是否检测和解决唯一键冲突的记录。从 v8.0.0 开始使用新参数 [`conflict.strategy`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-任务配置) 替代。 |
| TiDB Lightning  |  [`conflict.precheck-conflict-before-import`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-任务配置)  | 新增 | 控制是否开启前置冲突检测，即导入数据到 TiDB 前，先检查所需导入的数据是否存在冲突。该参数默认值为 `false`，表示仅开启后置冲突检测。仅当导入模式为物理导入模式 (`tikv-importer.backend = "local"`) 时可以使用该配置项。 |
| Data Migration  |  [`secret-key-path`](/dm/dm-master-configuration-file.md) | 新增 | 用于指定加解密上下游密码的密钥文件所在的路径。该文件内容必须是长度为 64 个字符的十六进制的 AES-256 密钥。 |
| TiCDC | [`tls-key-file-path`](ticdc/ticdc-sink-to-pulsar.md) | 新增 | 用于指定 Pulsar 启用 TLS 加密传输时，客户端的加密私钥路径。 |
| TiCDC | [`tls-certificate-file`](ticdc/ticdc-sink-to-pulsar.md) | 新增 | 用于指定 Pulsar 启用 TLS 加密传输时，客户端的加密证书文件路径。 |
```

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
| [`initial-scan-rate-limit`](/system-variables.md#initial-scan-rate-limit-new-in-v620) | Modified | Add a limit of `1MiB` as the minimum value. |
| [`tidb_enable_collect_execution_info`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_collect_execution_info) | Modified | Adds a control to whether to record the [usage statistics of indexes](/information-schema/information-schema-tidb-index-usage.md). The default value is `ON`. |
| [`tidb_redact_log`](/system-variables.md#tidb_redact_log) | Modified | Controls how to handle user information in SAL text when logging TiDB logs and slow logs. Values can be `OFF`, `ON`, and `MARKER` to support logging of information in plain text, information masking, and information marking, respectively. When the value of the variable is `MARKER`, the user information in the log will be marked for processing, and you can decide later whether to desensitize the log information. |
| [`tidb_dml_type`](/system-variables.md#tidb_dml_type-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls the execution mode of DML statements. The value options are `"standard"` and `"bulk"`. |

> | [`tidb_low_resolution_tso_update_interval`](/system-variables.md#tidb_low_resolution_tso_update_interval-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls the interval for updating TiDB [cache timestamp](/system-variables.md#tidb_low_resolution_tso). |

Author: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_load_binding_timeout`](/system-variables.md#tidb_load_binding_timeout-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls the timeout of binding loading. If the time of binding loading exceeds this variable, it will stop. |
| [`tidb_low_resolution_tso_update_interval`](/system-variables.md#tidb_low_resolution_tso_update_interval-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls the interval for updating TiDB [cache timestamp](/system-variables.md#tidb_low_resolution_tso). |
```

| [`tidb_opt_use_invisible_indexes`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_use_invisible_indexes-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls whether the optimizer can select [invisible indexes](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#invisible-index) for query optimization in the current session. When the variable is set to `ON`, the optimizer can select invisible indexes for query optimization in the session. |
|  [`tidb_schema_cache_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_schema_cache_size-new-in-v800)      |   Newly added                           |  Controls the upper limit of memory that can be used for caching the schema information to avoid occupying too much memory. When this feature is enabled, the LRU algorithm is used to cache the required tables, effectively reducing the memory occupied by schema information.    |

### Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |

> | TiDB  |  [`instance.tidb_enable_collect_execution_info`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#tidb_enable_collect_execution_info) | Modified | Adds a control to whether to record the [usage statistics of indexes](/information-schema/information-schema-tidb-index-usage.md). The default value is `true`. |
> | TiDB | [`tls-version`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#tls-version) | Modified | This parameter no longer supports `"TLSv1.0"` and `"TLSv1.1"`. Now it only supports `"TLSv1.2"` and `"TLSv1.3"`. |

Author: ```suggestion
| TiDB  |  [`instance.tidb_enable_collect_execution_info`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#tidb_enable_collect_execution_info) | Modified | Adds a control to whether to record the [usage statistics of indexes](/information-schema/information-schema-tidb-index-usage.md). The default value is `true`. |
| TiDB |  [`tls-version`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#tls-version) | Modified | This parameter no longer supports `"TLSv1.0"` and `"TLSv1.1"`. Now it only supports `"TLSv1.2"` and `"TLSv1.3"`. |
| TiDB  |  [`log.file.compression`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#compression-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Specifies the compression format of the polling log. The default value is null, which means that the polling log is not compressed. |
| TiDB  |  [`log.general-log-file`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#tidb_enable_collect_execution_info-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Specifies the file to save the general log to. The default is null, which means that the general log will be written to the instance file. |
```

### Behavior changes

* When you enable `tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg` for index acceleration, the encoded index key ingests data to TiKV with fixed concurrency (`16`), which cannot be dynamically adjusted according to the downstream TiKV capacity. Starting from v8.0.0, you can adjust concurrency using the [`tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt-new-in-v800) system variable. The default value is `4`. Compared with the previous default value of `16`, the new default value reduces performance when ingesting indexed key-value pairs. You can adjust this system variable based on the workload of the cluster. **tw@hfxsd** <!--no FD-->

### MySQL compatibility 

* The `KEY` partition type supports statements with empty list of partition fields, which is consistent with the behavior of MySQL. **tw@hfxsd** <!--No FD-->

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|

> | `tidb_ddl_version` | Renamed | Controls whether to enable TiDB DDL V2. Starting from v8.0.0, this variable is renamed to [`tidb_enable_fast_create_table`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_create_table-new-in-v800). |

Author: ```suggestion
| `tidb_ddl_version` | Renamed | Controls whether to enable TiDB DDL V2. To make the variable name more intuitive, starting from v8.0.0, this variable is renamed to [`tidb_enable_fast_create_table`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_create_table-new-in-v800). |
```

| [`initial-scan-rate-limit`](/system-variables.md#initial-scan-rate-limit-new-in-v620) | Modified | Add a limit of `1MiB` as the minimum value. |
| [`tidb_disable_txn_auto_retry`](/system-variables.md#tidb_disable_txn_auto_retry) | Deprecated | Starting from v8.0.0, this system variable is deprecated, and TiDB no longer supports automatic retries of optimistic transactions. It is recommended to use the [Pessimistic transaction mode](/pessimistic-transaction.md). If you encounter optimistic transaction conflicts, you can capture the error and retry transactions in your application. |
| [`tidb_enable_collect_execution_info`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_collect_execution_info) | Modified | Adds a control to whether to record the [usage statistics of indexes](/information-schema/information-schema-tidb-index-usage.md). The default value is `ON`. |

> | [`tidb_redact_log`](/system-variables.md#tidb_redact_log) | Modified | Controls how to handle user information in SAL text when logging TiDB logs and slow logs. Values can be `OFF`, `ON`, and `MARKER` to support logging of information in plain text, information masking, and information marking, respectively. When the value of the variable is `MARKER`, the user information in the log will be marked for processing, and you can decide later whether to desensitize the log information. |

Author: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_redact_log`](/system-variables.md#tidb_redact_log) | Modified | Controls how to handle user information in SAL text when logging TiDB logs and slow logs. Values can be `OFF` and `ON`, to support logging information in plain text, and masking information, respectively. To provide a richer way of masking user information in the log, the `MARKER` option is added in v8.0.0 to support marking log information. When you set the variable to `MARKER`, the user information in the log will be marked for processing, and you can decide later whether to desensitize the log information. |
```

    
    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#div_precision_increment-new-in-v800).
   
### DB operations

* PITR supports Amazon S3 Object Lock [#51184](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51184) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR) **tw@lilin90** <!--1604-->

    Amazon S3 Object Lock can help prevent backup data from being accidentally or intentionally deleted during a specified retention period, enhancing the security and integrity of data. Starting from v6.3.0, BR supports Amazon S3 Object Lock in snapshot backups, adding an additional layer of security for full backups. Starting from v8.0.0, PITR also supports Amazon S3 Object Lock. Whether full backups or log data backups, the Object Lock feature ensures a more reliable data protection, further strengthening the security of data backup and recovery and meeting regulatory requirements.

    For more information, see [documentation](/br/backup-and-restore-storages.md#other-features-supported-by-the-storage-service).

> * Support making invisible indexes visible at the session level [#issue号](链接) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1401-->

Author: ```suggestion
* Support making invisible indexes visible at the session level [#50653](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50653) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1401-->
```

### Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| TiDB | [`instance.tidb_enable_collect_execution_info`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#tidb_enable_collect_execution_info) | Modified | Adds a control to whether to record the [usage statistics of indexes](/information-schema/information-schema-tidb-index-usage.md). The default value is `true`. |
| TiDB | [`tls-version`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#tls-version) | Modified | This parameter no longer supports `"TLSv1.0"` and `"TLSv1.1"`. Now it only supports `"TLSv1.2"` and `"TLSv1.3"`. |
| TiDB  | [`log.file.compression`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#compression-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Specifies the compression format of the polling log. The default value is null, which means that the polling log is not compressed. |

> | TiDB  | [`log.general-log-file`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#tidb_enable_collect_execution_info-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Specifies the file to save the general log to. The default is null, which means that the general log will be written to the instance file. |

Author: ```suggestion
| TiDB  | [`log.general-log-file`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#general-log-file-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Specifies the file to save the general log to. The default is null, which means that the general log will be written to the instance file. |
```

| [`tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Control whether to enable the priority queue to schedule the tasks of automatically collecting statistics. When this variable is enabled, TiDB prioritizes collecting statistics for the tables that most need statistics. |
| [`tidb_enable_concurrent_hashagg_spill`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_concurrent_hashagg_spill-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls whether TiDB supports disk spill for the concurrent HashAgg algorithm. When it is `ON`, disk spill can be triggered for the concurrent HashAgg algorithm. This variable will be deprecated when this feature is generally available in a future release. |
| [`tidb_enable_fast_create_table`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_create_table-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable Fast [`CREATE TABLE`](/fast-create-table.md). Set the value to `ON` to enable it and `OFF` to disable it. The default value is `ON`. When this variable is enabled, DDL statements will be executed using Fast `CREATE TABLE`. |

> | [`tidb_load_binding_timeout`](/system-variables.md#tidb_load_binding_timeout-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls the timeout of binding loading. If the time of binding loading exceeds this variable, it will stop. |

Author: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_load_binding_timeout`](/system-variables.md#tidb_load_binding_timeout-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls the timeout of binding loading. If the execution time of loading bindings exceeds this value, the loading will be stopped. |
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_concurrent_hashagg_spill-new-in-v760).

* Introduce priority queues for automatic statistics update [#50132](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50132) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1640-->

    Maintaining the up-to-date nature of optimizer statistics is critical to stabilizing database performance. Most users rely on the [automatic statistics update](/statistics.md#automatic-update) provided by TiDB to keep statistics up-to-date. Automatic statistics update polls the status of statistics for all objects, and adds objects with insufficient health to a queue that is collected and updated one by one. In previous versions, the collection order is set randomly, which can result in longer waits for more worthy objects to be updated, causing potential database performance rollbacks.

>     Starting from v8.0.0, automatic statistics update dynamically sets priorities for objects in combination with a variety of conditions to ensure that more valuable objects for collection are processed first, such as newly created indexes and partitioned tables with partition changes. Less healthy objects tend to be placed at the front of the queue. This enhancement improves the reasonableness of the collection order, and reduces performance problems caused by outdated statistics, therefore improving database stability.

Author: ```suggestion
    Starting from v8.0.0, automatic statistics update dynamically sets priorities for objects in combination with a variety of conditions to ensure that more valuable objects for collection are processed first, such as newly created indexes and partitioned tables with partition changes. Additionally, TiDB prioritizes tables with lower health scores, placing them at the front of the queue. This enhancement improves the reasonableness of the collection order, and reduces performance problems caused by outdated statistics, therefore improving database stability.
```

    
    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue-new-in-v800).

* Remove some limitations on execution plan cache [#49161](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/49161) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1622/1585-->

    TiDB supports [execution plan cache](/sql-prepared-plan-cache.md), which can effectively reduce the processing latency of the transaction-intensive system and provides an important means to improve performance. In v8.0.0, TiDB removes several restrictions on execution plan cache. Execution plans with the following contents can be cached:

    - [Partitioned tables](/partitioned-table.md)

>     - [Generated columns](/generated-columns.md), including objects that depend on the generated columns (such as [multi-valued indexes](/choose-index.md))

Author: ```suggestion
    - [Generated columns](/generated-columns.md), including objects that depend on the generated columns (such as [multi-valued indexes](/choose-index.md#multi-valued-indexes-and-plan-cache))
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#invisible-index).

* Support writing general logs to a separate file [#51248](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51248) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1632-->

    The general log is a MySQL-compatible feature. When you enable it, it logs all SQL statements executed by the database to help you diagnose problems. TiDB also supports this feature. You can enable it by setting the variable [`tidb_general_log`](/system-variables.md#tidb_general_log). However, in previous versions, the content of general logs can only be written to the TiDB instance log together with other information, which is not friendly to keep it for a long time.

>     Starting from v8.0.0, you can enable TiDB to write the general log to a specified file by setting the configuration item [`log.general-log-file`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#general-log-file) to a valid filename. The general log also conforms to the same polling and saving policies for instance logs.
> 
>     In addition, to reduce the amount of disk space taken up by history log files, TiDB supports a native log compression option in v8.0.0. You can set the configuration item [`log.file.compression`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#compression) to `gzip`, and the polled history logs will be automatically compressed in [`gzip`](https://www.gzip.org/) format.
> 
>     For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-configuration-file.md#general-log-file).

Author: ```suggestion
    Starting from v8.0.0, you can enable TiDB to write the general log to a specified file by setting the configuration item [`log.general-log-file`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#general-log-file-new-in-v800) to a valid filename. The general log also conforms to the same polling and saving policies for instance logs.

    In addition, to reduce the amount of disk space taken up by history log files, TiDB supports a native log compression option in v8.0.0. You can set the configuration item [`log.file.compression`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#compression-new-in-v800) to `gzip`, and the polled history logs will be automatically compressed in [`gzip`](https://www.gzip.org/) format.

    For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-configuration-file.md#general-log-file-new-in-v800).
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/information-schema/information-schema-tidb-index-usage.md).

### Security

* TiKV encryption at rest supports Google [Key Management Service (Cloud KMS)](https://cloud.google.com/docs/security/key-management-deep-dive?hl) [#8906](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/8906) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv) **tw@qiancai** <!--1612-->

    TiKV ensures data security through encryption at rest mechanisms. The core of encryption at rest for security lies in key management. Starting from v8.0.0, you can manage the master key of TiKV using Google Cloud KMS to establish encryption-at-rest capabilities based on Cloud KMS, thereby enhancing the security of user data.

    To enable encryption at rest based on Google Cloud KMS, you need to create a key on Google Cloud and then configure the `[security.encryption.master-key]` section in the TiKV configuration file.

    For more information, see [documentation](/encryption-at-rest.md##tikv-encryption-at-rest).

> * TiDB 日志脱敏增强 [#51306](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51306) @[xhebox](https://github.com/xhebox) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1229-->
> 
>     TiDB 日志脱敏增强是基于对日志文件中 SQL 文本信息的数据进行标记，以便支持用户在查看时进行敏感数据的安全展示。用户可以更灵活自主地在展示环节控制是否对日志信息进行脱敏，以支持 TiDB 日志在不同场景下的安全使用，提升了客户使用日志脱敏能力的安全性和灵活性。要使用此功能请通过修改系统变量 `tidb_redact_log` 的值设置为 `marker`，此时 TiDB 的运行日志将对 SQL 文本进行标记，查看时将基于标记进行数据的安全展示，从而实现日志信息的保护。
> 
>     更多信息，请参考[用户文档](链接)。

Author: ```suggestion
* Enhance TiDB log desensitization [#51306](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51306) @[xhebox](https://github.com/xhebox) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1229-->

    The TiDB log desensitization enhancement is based on marking data with SQL text information in log files to support secure presentation of sensitive data when viewed by users. You can control whether or not to desensitize log information to enable secure use of TiDB logs in different scenarios, enhancing the security and flexibility of using the log desensitization capability. To use this feature, you set the system variable `tidb_redact_log` to `MARKER`. The SQL text in TiDB logs will be marked, and the data will be securely displayed based on the markers when viewed.

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_redact_log).
```

### MySQL compatibility 

* The `KEY` partition type supports statements with empty list of partition fields, which is consistent with the behavior of MySQL. **tw@hfxsd** <!--No FD-->

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
| [`tidb_disable_txn_auto_retry`](/system-variables.md#tidb_disable_txn_auto_retry) | Deprecated | Starting from v8.0.0, this system variable is deprecated, and TiDB no longer supports automatic retries of optimistic transactions. It is recommended to use the [Pessimistic transaction mode](/pessimistic-transaction.md). If you encounter optimistic transaction conflicts, you can capture the error and retry transactions in your application. |
| `tidb_ddl_version` | Renamed | Controls whether to enable TiDB DDL V2. Starting from v8.0.0, this variable is renamed to [`tidb_enable_fast_create_table`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_create_table-new-in-v800). |

> | [`initial-scan-rate-limit`](/system-variables.md#initial-scan-rate-limit-new-in-v620) | Modified | Add a limit of `1MiB` as the minimum value. |

Author: ```suggestion
```

| [`tidb_enable_collect_execution_info`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_collect_execution_info) | Modified | Adds a control to whether to record the [usage statistics of indexes](/information-schema/information-schema-tidb-index-usage.md). The default value is `ON`. |
| [`tidb_redact_log`](/system-variables.md#tidb_redact_log) | Modified | Controls how to handle user information in SAL text when logging TiDB logs and slow logs. Values can be `OFF` and `ON`, to support log information in plain text, and masking log information, respectively. To provide a richer way of processing user information in the log, the `MARKER` option is added in v8.0.0 to support marking log information. When you set the variable to `MARKER`, the user information in the log will be marked for processing, and you can decide later whether to desensitize the log information. |

> | [`div_precision_increment`](/system-variables.md#div_precision_increment-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls the number of decimal places in the result of a division operation `/` performed using the operator. |

Author: ```suggestion
| [`div_precision_increment`](/system-variables.md#div_precision_increment-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls the number of digits by which to increase the scale of the result of a division operation performed using the `/` operator. This variable is the same as MySQL. |
```

| [`tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Control whether to enable the priority queue to schedule the tasks of automatically collecting statistics. When this variable is enabled, TiDB prioritizes collecting statistics for the tables that most need statistics. |
| [`tidb_enable_concurrent_hashagg_spill`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_concurrent_hashagg_spill-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls whether TiDB supports disk spill for the concurrent HashAgg algorithm. When it is `ON`, disk spill can be triggered for the concurrent HashAgg algorithm. This variable will be deprecated when this feature is generally available in a future release. |
| [`tidb_enable_fast_create_table`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_create_table-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable Fast [`CREATE TABLE`](/fast-create-table.md). Set the value to `ON` to enable it and `OFF` to disable it. The default value is `ON`. When this variable is enabled, DDL statements will be executed using Fast `CREATE TABLE`. |

> | [`tidb_load_binding_timeout`](/system-variables.md#tidb_load_binding_timeout-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls the timeout of binding loading. If the execution time of loading bindings exceeds this value, the loading will be stopped. |

Author: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_load_binding_timeout`](/system-variables.md#tidb_load_binding_timeout-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls the timeout of loading binding. If the execution time of loading bindings exceeds this value, the loading will be stopped. |
```

### Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| TiDB | [`instance.tidb_enable_collect_execution_info`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#tidb_enable_collect_execution_info) | Modified | Adds a control to whether to record the [usage statistics of indexes](/information-schema/information-schema-tidb-index-usage.md). The default value is `true`. |
| TiDB | [`tls-version`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#tls-version) | Modified | This parameter no longer supports `"TLSv1.0"` and `"TLSv1.1"`. Now it only supports `"TLSv1.2"` and `"TLSv1.3"`. |
| TiDB  | [`log.file.compression`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#compression-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Specifies the compression format of the polling log. The default value is null, which means that the polling log is not compressed. |
| TiDB  | [`log.general-log-file`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#general-log-file-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Specifies the file to save the general log to. The default is null, which means that the general log will be written to the instance file. |

> | TiKV | [`raftstore.store-io-pool-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#store-io-pool-size-new-in-v530) | Modified | Change the default value from `0` to `1` to improve TiKV performance, meaning that the size of the StoreWriter thread pool now defaults to `1`. |

Author: ```suggestion
| TiKV | [`backup.hadoop.initial-scan-rate-limit`](/system-variables.md#initial-scan-rate-limit-new-in-v620) | Modified | Add a limit of `1MiB` as the minimum value. |
| TiKV | [`raftstore.store-io-pool-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#store-io-pool-size-new-in-v530) | Modified | Change the default value from `0` to `1` to improve TiKV performance, meaning that the size of the StoreWriter thread pool now defaults to `1`. |
```

| [`tidb_load_binding_timeout`](/system-variables.md#tidb_load_binding_timeout-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls the timeout of loading bindings. If the execution time of loading bindings exceeds this value, the loading will stop. |
| [`tidb_low_resolution_tso_update_interval`](/system-variables.md#tidb_low_resolution_tso_update_interval-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls the interval for updating TiDB [cache timestamp](/system-variables.md#tidb_low_resolution_tso). |
| [`tidb_opt_use_invisible_indexes`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_use_invisible_indexes-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls whether the optimizer can select [invisible indexes](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#invisible-index) for query optimization in the current session. When the variable is set to `ON`, the optimizer can select invisible indexes for query optimization in the session. |

> | [`tidb_schema_cache_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_schema_cache_size-new-in-v800)  | Newly added | Controls the upper limit of memory that can be used for caching the schema information to avoid occupying too much memory. When this feature is enabled, the LRU algorithm is used to cache the required tables, effectively reducing the memory occupied by schema information.    |

Author: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_schema_cache_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_schema_cache_size-new-in-v800)  | Newly added | Controls the upper limit of memory that can be used for caching the schema information to avoid occupying too much memory. When this feature is enabled, the LRU algorithm is used to cache the required tables, effectively reducing the memory occupied by the schema information.    |
```

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
| [`tidb_disable_txn_auto_retry`](/system-variables.md#tidb_disable_txn_auto_retry) | Deprecated | Starting from v8.0.0, this system variable is deprecated, and TiDB no longer supports automatic retries of optimistic transactions. It is recommended to use the [Pessimistic transaction mode](/pessimistic-transaction.md). If you encounter optimistic transaction conflicts, you can capture the error and retry transactions in your application. |
| `tidb_ddl_version` | Renamed | Controls whether to enable TiDB DDL V2. Starting from v8.0.0, this variable is renamed to [`tidb_enable_fast_create_table`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_create_table-new-in-v800). |
| [`tidb_enable_collect_execution_info`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_collect_execution_info) | Modified | Adds a control to whether to record the [usage statistics of indexes](/information-schema/information-schema-tidb-index-usage.md). The default value is `ON`. |

> | [`tidb_redact_log`](/system-variables.md#tidb_redact_log) | Modified | Controls how to handle user information in SAL text when logging TiDB logs and slow logs. Values can be `OFF` and `ON`, to support log information in plain text, and masking log information, respectively. To provide a richer way of processing user information in the log, the `MARKER` option is added in v8.0.0 to support marking log information. When you set the variable to `MARKER`, the user information in the log will be marked for processing, and you can decide later whether to desensitize the log information. |

Author: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_redact_log`](/system-variables.md#tidb_redact_log) | Modified | Controls how to handle user information in SAL text when logging TiDB logs and slow logs. Values can be `OFF` and `ON`, to support log information in plain text, and masking log information, respectively. To provide a richer way of processing user information in the log, the `MARKER` option is added in v8.0.0 to support marking log information. |
```

### Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| TiDB | [`instance.tidb_enable_collect_execution_info`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#tidb_enable_collect_execution_info) | Modified | Adds a control to whether to record the [usage statistics of indexes](/information-schema/information-schema-tidb-index-usage.md). The default value is `true`. |
| TiDB | [`tls-version`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#tls-version) | Modified | This parameter no longer supports `"TLSv1.0"` and `"TLSv1.1"`. Now it only supports `"TLSv1.2"` and `"TLSv1.3"`. |
| TiDB  | [`log.file.compression`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#compression-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Specifies the compression format of the polling log. The default value is null, which means that the polling log is not compressed. |

> | TiDB  | [`log.general-log-file`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#general-log-file-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Specifies the file to save the general log to. The default is null, which means that the general log will be written to the instance file. |

Author: ```suggestion
| TiDB  | [`log.general-log-file`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#general-log-file-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Specifies the file to save the general log to. The default is null, which means that the general log will be written to the instance file. |
| TiDB | [`tikv-client.enable-replica-selector-v2`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#enable-replica-selector-v2-从-v800-版本开始引入) | 新增 | 控制是否使用 replica selector v2 版本，默认值为 `true`。 |
```

    With the Global Sort experimental feature introduced in v7.4.0, TiDB can temporarily store the data to be imported in an external storage (such as Amazon S3) for global sorting before importing it into TiKV, which eliminates the need for TiKV compaction operations during import. In v8.0.0, Global sorting becomes GA. This feature reduces the resource consumption of TiKV and significantly improves the performance and stability of `IMPORT INTO`.

   For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-global-sort.md).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v7.6.0 to the current version (v8.0.0). If you are upgrading from v7.5.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

- Prohibit setting [`require_secure_transport`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/system-variables#require_secure_transport-new-in-v610) to `ON` in Security Enhanced Mode (SEM) to prevent potential connectivity issues for users [#47665](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47665) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)

```

        
## Bug fixes

## Contributors

We would like to thank the following contributors from the TiDB community:

- [Aoang](https://github.com/Aoang)
- [bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)
- [daemon365](https://github.com/daemon365)
- [eltociear](https://github.com/eltociear)
- [lichunzhu](https://github.com/lichunzhu)
- [jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)
- [pingandb](https://github.com/pingandb)
- [renovate](https://github.com/renovate)
- [shenqidebaozi](https://github.com/shenqidebaozi)

> - [Smityz ](https://github.com/Smityz)

Author: ```suggestion
- [Smityz](https://github.com/Smityz)
```

    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">Data Migration</td>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/ticdc-bidirectional-replication">TiCDC supports replicating DDL statements in bi-directional replication (BDR) mode (GA) </a>**tw@hfxsd** <!--1682/1689--></td>
    <td>With this feature, TiCDC allows for a cluster to be assigned the <code>PRIMARY</code> BDR role, and enables the replication of DDL statements from that cluster to the downstream cluster.</td>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>TiCDC adds support for the Simple protocol **tw@lilin90** <!--1646--></td>
    <td>TiCDC introduces support for a new protocol, the Simple protocol. This protocol includes support for in-band schema tracking capabilities.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>TiCDC adds support for the Debezium format protocol **tw@lilin90** <!--1652--></td>
    <td>TiCDC can now publish replication events to a Kafka sink using a protocol that generates Debezium style messages.</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Feature details

### Scalability

> - PD supports the microservice mode [#5766](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5766) @[binshi-bing](https://github.com/binshi-bing) **tw@qiancai** <!--1553/1558-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- PD supports the microservice mode (experimental) [#5766](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5766) @[binshi-bing](https://github.com/binshi-bing) **tw@qiancai** <!--1553/1558-->
```

    In earlier versions of TiDB, the concurrency algorithm of the HashAgg operator does not support disk spill. If the execution plan of a SQL statement contains the concurrent HashAgg operator, all the data for that SQL statement can only be processed in memory. Consequently, TiDB has to process a large amount of data in memory. When the data size exceeds the memory limit, TiDB can only choose the non-concurrent algorithm, which does not leverage concurrency for performance improvement.

     In v8.0.0, the concurrent HashAgg algorithm of TiDB supports disk spill. Under any concurrent conditions, the HashAgg operator can automatically trigger data spill based on memory usage, thus balancing performance and data throughput. Currently, as an experimental feature, TiDB introduces the `tidb_enable_concurrent_hashagg_spill` variable to control whether to enable the concurrent HashAgg algorithm that supports disk spill. When this variable is `ON`, it means enabled. This variable will be deprecated when the feature is generally available in a future release.

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_concurrent_hashagg_spill-new-in-v760).

> * Introduce priority queues for automatic statistics update [#50132](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50132) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1640-->
> 
>     Maintaining the up-to-date nature of optimizer statistics is critical to stabilizing database performance. Most users rely on the [automatic statistics update](/statistics.md#automatic-update) provided by TiDB to keep statistics up-to-date. Automatic statistics update polls the status of statistics for all objects, and adds objects with insufficient health to a queue that is collected and updated one by one. In previous versions, the collection order is set randomly, which can result in longer waits for more worthy objects to be updated, causing potential database performance rollbacks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Introduce the priority queue for automatic statistics update [#50132](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50132) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1640-->

    Maintaining optimizer statistics up-to-date is the key to stabilizing database performance. Most users rely on the [automatic statistics update](/statistics.md#automatic-update) provided by TiDB to keep statistics up-to-date. Automatic statistics update polls the status of statistics for all objects, and adds objects with insufficient health to a queue for individual collection and update. In previous versions, the collection order is random, which could result in longer waits for more worthy objects to be updated, causing potential database performance regressions.
```

    Starting from v8.0.0, automatic statistics update dynamically sets priorities for objects in combination with a variety of conditions to ensure that more valuable objects for collection are processed first, such as newly created indexes and partitioned tables with partition changes. Additionally, TiDB prioritizes tables with lower health scores, placing them at the front of the queue. This enhancement improves the reasonableness of the collection order, and reduces performance problems caused by outdated statistics, therefore improving database stability.
    
    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue-new-in-v800).

* Remove some limitations on execution plan cache [#49161](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/49161) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1622/1585-->

>     TiDB supports [execution plan caching](/sql-prepared-plan-cache.md), which can effectively reduce the processing latency of transaction-intensive systems and is important for improving performance. In v8.0.0, TiDB removes several limitations on execution plan cache. Execution plans with the following contents can be cached:

Author: ```suggestion
    TiDB supports [execution plan cache](/sql-prepared-plan-cache.md), which can effectively reduce the processing latency of transaction-intensive systems and is important for improving performance. In v8.0.0, TiDB removes several limitations on execution plan cache. Execution plans with the following contents can be cached:
```

>     TiDB supports [execution plan cache](/sql-prepared-plan-cache.md), which can effectively reduce the processing latency of the transaction-intensive system and provides an important means to improve performance. In v8.0.0, TiDB removes several restrictions on execution plan cache. Execution plans with the following contents can be cached:
> 
>     - [Partitioned tables](/partitioned-table.md)
>     - [Generated columns](/generated-columns.md), including objects that depend on the generated columns (such as [multi-valued indexes](/choose-index.md#multi-valued-indexes-and-plan-cache))
> 
>   This enhancement extends the usage scenarios of execution plan cache and improves the overall performance of the database in complex scenarios.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    TiDB supports [execution plan caching](/sql-prepared-plan-cache.md), which can effectively reduce the processing latency of transaction-intensive systems and is important for improving performance. In v8.0.0, TiDB removes several limitations on execution plan cache. Execution plans with the following contents can be cached:

    - [Partitioned tables](/partitioned-table.md)
    - [Generated columns](/generated-columns.md), including objects that depend on generated columns (such as [multi-valued indexes](/choose-index.md#multi-valued-indexes-and-plan-cache))

  This enhancement extends the usage scenarios of execution plan cache and improves the overall database performance in complex scenarios.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/sql-prepared-plan-cache.md).

> * The optimizer enhances support for multi-valued indexes [#47759](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47759) [#46539](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46539) @[Arenatlx](https://github.com/Arenatlx) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1405/1584-->
> 
>     TiDB introduced [multi-value indexes](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#multi-valued-indexes) in in v6.6.0 to improve query performance for JSON data types. In v8.0.0, the optimizer enhances its support for multi-valued indexes and can correctly identify and utilize them to optimize queries in complex scenarios.
> 
>     * Statistics on multi-valued indexes are collected and applied by the optimizer for estimation. When a SQL statement might select multiple multi-valued indexes, the optimizer can identify the index with lower cost.
>     * When there are multiple `member of` conditions connected by `OR`, the optimizer is able to match an effective index partial path for each DNF item (a `member of` condition) and combine multiple paths using Union to form an `Index Merge`. This allows more efficient condition filtering and data querying.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Optimizer enhances support for multi-valued indexes [#47759](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47759) [#46539](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46539) @[Arenatlx](https://github.com/Arenatlx) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1405/1584-->

    TiDB v6.6.0 introduces [multi-value indexes](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#multi-valued-indexes) to improve query performance for JSON data types. In v8.0.0, the optimizer enhances its support for multi-valued indexes and can correctly identify and utilize them to optimize queries in complex scenarios.

    * The optimizer can collect statistics on multi-valued indexes and use this information for estimation. When a SQL statement might select from several multi-value indexes, the optimizer can identify the index with lower cost.
    * When using `OR` to connect multiple `member of` conditions, the optimizer can match an effective index partial path for each DNF item (a `member of` condition) and combine these paths using Union to form an `Index Merge`. This achieves more efficient condition filtering and data querying.
```

  For more information, see [documentation](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#multi-valued-indexes).
  

>   * Supports configuring the update interval for low-precision TSO [#51081](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51081) @[Tema](https://github.com/Tema) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1725-->
> 
>     The TiDB [low-precision TSO feature](/system-variables.md#tidb_low_resolution_tso) uses regularly updated TSO as transaction timestamps. Although this feature sacrifices real-time performance while tolerating reading old data, it reduces the overhead of obtaining TSO for small read-only transactions and improves the ability of high-concurrency reads.
> 
>     Before v8.0.0, the TSO update interval of low-precision TSO feature is fixed and cannot be adjusted according to actual business needs. In v8.0.0, TiDB introduces the system variable `tidb_low_resolution_tso_update_interval` to control the TSO update interval. This feature is valid only when the low-precision TSO feature is enabled.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Supports configuring the update interval for low-precision TSO [#51081](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51081) @[Tema](https://github.com/Tema) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1725-->

    The [low-precision TSO feature](/system-variables.md#tidb_low_resolution_tso) in TiDB uses regularly updated TSO as the transaction timestamp. In scenarios where reading outdated data is acceptable, this feature reduces the overhead of obtaining TSO for small read-only transactions by sacrificing real-time performance and improves the ability of high-concurrency reads.

    Before v8.0.0, the TSO update interval of low-precision TSO feature is fixed and cannot be adjusted according to actual application requirements. In v8.0.0, TiDB introduces the system variable `tidb_low_resolution_tso_update_interval` to control the TSO update interval. This feature takes effect only when the low-precision TSO feature is enabled.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_low_resolution_tso_update_interval-new-in-v800).

### Reliability

> * Support caching required schema information according to the Least Recently Used (LRU) algorithm to reduce memory consumption on the TiDB server (experimental) [#50959](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50959) @[gmhdbjd](https://github.com/gmhdbjd) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1691-->
> 
>     Before v8.0.0, each TiDB node caches the schema information of all tables. Once the number of tables is large, for example, in a scenario that involves hundreds of thousands of tables, caching the schema information of these tables alone will take up a lot of memory. 
>     
>     Starting from v8.0.0, the system variable [`tidb_schema_cache_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_schema_cache_size-new-in-v800) is introduced, which allows you to set an upper limit on the amount of memory that can be used for caching the schema information, so that it does not take up too much memory. When you enable this feature, TiDB uses the LRU algorithm to cache the required tables, effectively reducing the memory consumed by the schema information.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Support caching required schema information according to the LRU algorithm to reduce memory consumption on the TiDB server (experimental) [#50959](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50959) @[gmhdbjd](https://github.com/gmhdbjd) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1691-->

    Before v8.0.0, each TiDB node caches the schema information of all tables. In scenarios with hundreds of thousands of tables, just caching these table schemas could consume a significant amount of memory. 
 
    Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB introduces the system variable [`tidb_schema_cache_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_schema_cache_size-new-in-v800), which enables you to set an upper limit for caching schema information, thereby preventing excessive memory usage. When you enable this feature, TiDB uses the Least Recently Used (LRU) algorithm to cache the required tables, effectively reducing the memory consumed by the schema information.
```

    Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB supports a DML type for handling a large amount of data. This DML type writes data to TiKV in a timely manner during execution, avoiding the continuous storage of all transaction data in memory, and thus supports handling a large amount of data that exceeds the memory limit. This DML type ensures transaction integrity and uses the same syntax as standard DML. `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, `REPLACE`, and `DELETE` statements can use this new DML type to execute large-scale DML operations.

    This DML type is implemented by the [Pipelined DML](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/blob/master/docs/design/2024-01-09-pipelined-DML.md) feature and only takes effect on statements with auto-commit enabled. You can control whether to enable this DML type by setting the system variable [`tidb_dml_type`](/system-variables.md#tidb_dml_type-new-in-v800).

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_dml_type-new-in-v800).

> * Support using some expressions to set the default values for columns when a table is created (experimental) [#50936](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50936) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1690-->

Reviewer 4: This is labeled as experimental, but the docs page it links to doesn't mention this is experimental.

Author: It mentions it in Line 31 https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/16693/files

Reviewer 4: Ah yes. But that's not in this branch, that's why I didn't see it.

> * Support using some expressions to set the default values for columns when a table is created (experimental) [#50936](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50936) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1690-->
> 
>     Before v8.0.0, when you create a table, the default values of columns can only be fixed strings, numbers, and dates. Starting from v8.0.0, you can use some expressions as the default values of columns, such as setting the default value of columns to `UUID()`. This feature helps you meet your diverse requirements.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Support using some expressions to set default column values when creating a table (experimental) [#50936](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50936) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1690-->

    Before v8.0.0, when you create a table, the default value of a column is limited to strings, numbers, and dates. Starting from v8.0.0, you can use some expressions as the default column values. For example, you can set the default value of a column to `UUID()`. This feature helps you meet more diverse requirements.
```

    
    For more information, see [documentation](/data-type-default-values.md#specify-expressions-as-default-values).

* Support the `div_precision_increment` system variable [#51501](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51501) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1566-->

>     MySQL 8.0 supports the variable `div_precision_increment`, which specifies the number of digits by which to increase the scale of the result of a division operation performed using the `/` operator. Before v8.0.0, TiDB does not support this variable, and division is performed to 4 decimal places. Starting with v8.0.0, TiDB supports this variable. You can specify the number of digits by which to increase the scale of the result of a division operation as desired.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    MySQL 8.0 supports the variable `div_precision_increment`, which specifies the number of digits by which to increase the scale of the result of a division operation performed using the `/` operator. Before v8.0.0, TiDB does not support this variable, and division is performed to 4 decimal places. Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB supports this variable. You can specify the number of digits by which to increase the scale of the result of a division operation as desired.
```

    Starting from v8.0.0, you can set the session-level system variable [`tidb_opt_use_invisible_indexes`](/system-variables.md#) to `ON` to make the current session recognize and use invisible indexes. With this feature, you can create a new index and test its performance by setting the index to invisible first, and then modifying the system variable in the current session for testing without affecting other sessions. This improvement enhances the safety of performance tuning and helps to improve the stability of production databases.

    For more information, see [documentation](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#invisible-index).

* Support writing general logs to a separate file [#51248](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51248) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1632-->

>     The general log is a MySQL-compatible feature. When you enable it, it logs all SQL statements executed by the database to help you diagnose problems. TiDB also supports this feature. You can enable it by setting the variable [`tidb_general_log`](/system-variables.md#tidb_general_log). However, in previous versions, the content of general logs can only be written to the TiDB instance log together with other information, which is not friendly to keep it for a long time.
> 
>     Starting from v8.0.0, you can enable TiDB to write the general log to a specified file by setting the configuration item [`log.general-log-file`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#general-log-file-new-in-v800) to a valid filename. The general log also conforms to the same polling and saving policies for instance logs.
> 
>     In addition, to reduce the amount of disk space taken up by history log files, TiDB supports a native log compression option in v8.0.0. You can set the configuration item [`log.file.compression`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#compression-new-in-v800) to `gzip`, and the polled history logs will be automatically compressed in [`gzip`](https://www.gzip.org/) format.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    The general log is a MySQL-compatible feature that logs all executed SQL statements to help diagnose issues. TiDB also supports this feature. You can enable it by setting the variable [`tidb_general_log`](/system-variables.md#tidb_general_log). However, in previous versions, the content of general logs can only be written to the TiDB instance log along with other information, which is inconvenient for users who need to keep logs for a long time.

    Starting from v8.0.0, you can enable writing the general log to a specified file by setting the configuration item [`log.general-log-file`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#general-log-file-new-in-v800) to a valid filename. The general log follows the same rotation and retention policies as the instance log.

    In addition, to reduce the disk space occupied by historical log files, TiDB v8.0.0 introduces a native log compression option. You can set the configuration item [`log.file.compression`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#compression-new-in-v800) to `gzip` to automatically compress rotated logs using the [`gzip`](https://www.gzip.org/) format.
```

    * The cumulative execution count of statements that scan the index
    * The total number of rows scanned when accessing the index
    * The selectivity distribution when scanning the index
    * The time of the most recent access to the index

  With this information, you can identify indexes that are not used by the optimizer and indexes with poor filtering effects, thereby optimizing index design to improve database performance.
  
    Additionally, TiDB v8.0.0 introduces a view [`sys.schema_unused_index`](/sys-schema.md), which is compatible with MySQL. This view records indexes that have not been used since the last start of TiDB. For clusters upgraded from versions earlier than v8.0.0, the `sys` schema and the views in it are not created automatically. You can manually create them by referring to [`sys`](/sys-schema.md).

    For more information, see [documentation](/information-schema/information-schema-tidb-index-usage.md).

### Security

> * TiKV encryption at rest supports Google [Key Management Service (Cloud KMS)](https://cloud.google.com/docs/security/key-management-deep-dive?hl) [#8906](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/8906) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv) **tw@qiancai** <!--1612-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* TiKV encryption at rest supports Google [Key Management Service (Cloud KMS)](https://cloud.google.com/docs/security/key-management-deep-dive?hl) (experimental) [#8906](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/8906) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv) **tw@qiancai** <!--1612-->
```

>     TiKV ensures data security through encryption at rest mechanisms. The core of encryption at rest for security lies in key management. Starting from v8.0.0, you can manage the master key of TiKV using Google Cloud KMS to establish encryption-at-rest capabilities based on Cloud KMS, thereby enhancing the security of user data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    TiKV ensures data security by encrypting stored data using the encryption at rest technique. The core of encryption at rest for security is key management. Starting from v8.0.0, you can manage the master key of TiKV using Google Cloud KMS to establish encryption-at-rest capabilities based on Cloud KMS, thereby enhancing the security of user data.
```

    To enable encryption at rest based on Google Cloud KMS, you need to create a key on Google Cloud and then configure the `[security.encryption.master-key]` section in the TiKV configuration file.

    For more information, see [documentation](/encryption-at-rest.md##tikv-encryption-at-rest).

* Enhance TiDB log desensitization [#51306](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51306) @[xhebox](https://github.com/xhebox) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1229-->

>     The TiDB log desensitization enhancement is based on marking data with SQL text information in log files to support secure presentation of sensitive data when viewed by users. You can control whether or not to desensitize log information to enable secure use of TiDB logs in different scenarios, enhancing the security and flexibility of using the log desensitization capability. To use this feature, you set the system variable `tidb_redact_log` to `MARKER`. The SQL text in TiDB logs will be marked, and the data will be securely displayed based on the markers when viewed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    The enhancement of TiDB log desensitization is based on marking SQL text information in log files, facilitating the safe display of sensitive data when users view the logs. You can control whether to desensitize log information to enable secure use of TiDB logs in different scenarios, enhancing the security and flexibility of using log desensitization. To use this feature, set the system variable `tidb_redact_log` to `MARKER`. This marks the SQL text in TiDB logs. When viewing the logs, sensitive data is securely displayed based on the markers, thus protecting the log information.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_redact_log).

### Data migration

> * TiCDC supports replicating DDL statements in bi-directional replication (BDR) mode (GA) [#10301](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10301) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1689/1682-->
> 
>     TiDB v7.6.0 introduces replicating DDL statements in BDR mode as an experimental feature. Previously, replicating DDL statements was not supported by TiCDC, so users of TiCDC bi-directional replication had to apply DDL statements to both TiDB clusters separately. With this feature, TiCDC allows for a cluster to be assigned the `PRIMARY` BDR role, and enables the replication of DDL statements from that cluster to the downstream cluster. In v8.0.0, this feature becomes GA.
> 
>     For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-bidirectional-replication.md).
> 
> * TiCDC adds support for the Simple protocol [#9898](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9898) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand) **tw@lilin90** <!--1646-->
> 
>     TiCDC introduces support for a new protocol, the Simple protocol. This protocol includes support for in-band schema tracking capabilities.
> 
>     For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-simple-protocol.md).
> 
> * TiCDC adds support for the Debezium format protocol [#1799](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/1799) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish) **tw@lilin90** <!--1652-->
> 
>     TiCDC can now publish replication events to a Kafka sink using a protocol that generates event messages in a Debezium style format. This helps to simplify the migration from MySQL to TiDB for users who are currently using Debezium to pull data from MySQL for downstream processing.
> 
>     For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-debezium.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* TiCDC adds support for the Simple protocol [#9898](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9898) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand) **tw@lilin90** <!--1646-->

    TiCDC introduces support for a new protocol, the Simple protocol. This protocol includes support for in-band schema tracking capabilities.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-simple-protocol.md).

* TiCDC adds support for the Debezium format protocol [#1799](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/1799) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish) **tw@lilin90** <!--1652-->

    TiCDC can now publish replication events to a Kafka sink using a protocol that generates event messages in a Debezium style format. This helps to simplify the migration from MySQL to TiDB for users who are currently using Debezium to pull data from MySQL for downstream processing.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-debezium.md).

* TiCDC supports replicating DDL statements in bi-directional replication (BDR) mode (GA) [#10301](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10301) [#48519](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48519) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1689/1682-->

    TiDB v7.6.0 introduces replicating DDL statements in BDR mode as an experimental feature. Previously, replicating DDL statements was not supported by TiCDC, so users of TiCDC bi-directional replication had to apply DDL statements to both TiDB clusters separately. With this feature, TiCDC allows for a cluster to be assigned the `PRIMARY` BDR role, and enables the replication of DDL statements from that cluster to the downstream cluster. In v8.0.0, this feature becomes generally available (GA).

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-bidirectional-replication.md).
```

> * DM supports specifying a secret key for encrypting and decrypting passwords of source and target databases [#9492](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9492) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) **tw@qiancai** <!--1497-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* DM supports using a user-provided secret key to encrypt and decrypt passwords of source and target databases [#9492](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9492) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) **tw@qiancai** <!--1497-->
```

    For more information, see [documentation](dm/dm-customized-secret-key.md).

* Supports the `IMPORT INTO ... FROM SELECT` syntax to enhance the `IMPORT INTO` functionality (experimental) [#49883](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49883) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) **tw@qiancai** <!--1680-->

    In earlier TiDB versions, importing query results into a target table could only be done using the `INSERT INTO ... SELECT` statement, which is relatively inefficient in some large dataset scenarios. Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB enables you to use `IMPORT INTO ... FROM SELECT` to import the results of a `SELECT` query into an empty TiDB target table, which achieves up to 8 times the performance of `INSERT INTO ... SELECT` and significantly reduces the import time.

    In addition, you can use `IMPORT INTO ... FROM SELECT` to import historical data queried with [`AS OF TIMESTAMP`](/as-of-timestamp.md).

   For more information, see [documentation](sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md).

> * TiDB Lightning simplifies conflict resolution strategies and supports handling conflicting data using the "replace" method (experimental) [#51036](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51036) @[lyzx2001](https://github.com/lyzx2001) **tw@qiancai** <!--1684-->
> 
>     In earlier versions, TiDB Lightning has [one data conflict resolution strategy](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-logical-import-mode-usage.md#conflict-detection) for the logical import mode and [two data conflict resolution strategies](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-physical-import-mode-usage.md#conflict-data-detection) for the physical import mode, which are not easy to understand and configure.
> 
>     Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB Lightning has deprecated the [old version of conflict detection](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-physical-import-mode-usage.md#the-old-version-of-conflict-detection-deprecated-in-v800) strategy for the physical import mode, enables you to control the conflict detection strategy for both logical and physical import modes via the [`conflict.strategy`](tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) parameter, and simplified the configuration of this parameter. In addition, in the physical import mode, the `replace` strategy now supports retaining the latest data and overwriting the old data when the import detects data with primary key or unique key conflicts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* TiDB Lightning simplifies conflict resolution strategies and supports handling conflicting data using the `"replace"` strategy (experimental) [#51036](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51036) @[lyzx2001](https://github.com/lyzx2001) **tw@qiancai** <!--1684-->

    In earlier versions, TiDB Lightning has [one data conflict resolution strategy](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-logical-import-mode-usage.md#conflict-detection) for the logical import mode and [two data conflict resolution strategies](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-physical-import-mode-usage.md#conflict-data-detection) for the physical import mode, which are not easy to understand and configure.

    Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB Lightning deprecates the [old version of conflict detection](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-physical-import-mode-usage.md#the-old-version-of-conflict-detection-deprecated-in-v800) strategy for the physical import mode, enables you to control the conflict detection strategy for both logical and physical import modes via the [`conflict.strategy`](tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) parameter, and simplifies the configuration of this parameter. In addition, in the physical import mode, the `replace` strategy now supports retaining the latest data and overwriting the old data when the import detects data with primary key or unique key conflicts.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md).

> * Global Sort becomes generally available (GA), improving the performance and stability of  `IMPORT INTO` significantly (importing data within 40 TiBs is now supported) [#45719](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45719) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716) **tw@qiancai** <!--1580-->
> 
>     Before v7.4.0, when executing `IMPORT INTO` tasks using the [Distributed eXecution Framework (DXF)](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md), TiDB only locally sorts part of the data before importing it into TiKV due to limited local storage space. This results in a significant overlap of the imported data in TiKV, requiring TiKV to perform additional compaction operations during import and affecting the TiKV performance and stability.
> 
>     With the Global Sort experimental feature introduced in v7.4.0, TiDB can temporarily store the data to be imported in an external storage (such as Amazon S3) for global sorting before importing it into TiKV, which eliminates the need for TiKV compaction operations during import. In v8.0.0, Global sorting becomes GA. This feature reduces the resource consumption of TiKV and significantly improves the performance and stability of `IMPORT INTO`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Global Sort becomes generally available (GA), improving the performance and stability of  `IMPORT INTO` significantly [#45719](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45719) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716) **tw@qiancai** <!--1580-->

    Before v7.4.0, when executing `IMPORT INTO` tasks using the [Distributed eXecution Framework (DXF)](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md), TiDB only locally sorts part of the data before importing it into TiKV due to limited local storage space. This results in significant overlap of the imported data in TiKV, requiring TiKV to perform additional compaction operations during import and affecting the TiKV performance and stability.

    With the Global Sort experimental feature introduced in v7.4.0, TiDB can temporarily store the data to be imported in an external storage (such as Amazon S3) for global sorting before importing it into TiKV, which eliminates the need for TiKV compaction operations during import. In v8.0.0, Global sorting becomes GA. This feature reduces the resource consumption of TiKV and significantly improves the performance and stability of `IMPORT INTO`. If you enable the Global Sort, each `IMPORT INTO` task supports importing data within 40 TiB.
```

   For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-global-sort.md).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v7.6.0 to the current version (v8.0.0). If you are upgrading from v7.5.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

> - Prohibit setting [`require_secure_transport`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/system-variables#require_secure_transport-new-in-v610) to `ON` in Security Enhanced Mode (SEM) to prevent potential connectivity issues for users [#47665](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47665) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Prohibit setting [`require_secure_transport`](/system-variables.md#require_secure_transport-new-in-v610) to `ON` in Security Enhanced Mode (SEM) to prevent potential connectivity issues for users [#47665](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47665) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
```

### Behavior changes

> * When you enable `tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg` for index acceleration, the encoded index key ingests data to TiKV with fixed concurrency (`16`), which cannot be dynamically adjusted according to the downstream TiKV capacity. Starting from v8.0.0, you can adjust concurrency using the [`tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt-new-in-v800) system variable. The default value is `4`. Compared with the previous default value of `16`, the new default value reduces performance when ingesting indexed key-value pairs. You can adjust this system variable based on the workload of the cluster. **tw@hfxsd** <!--no FD-->

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Before v8.0.0, after enabling the acceleration of `ADD INDEX` and `CREATE INDEX` (`tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg = ON`), the encoded index key ingests data to TiKV with a fixed concurrency of `16`, which cannot be dynamically adjusted according to the downstream TiKV capacity. Starting from v8.0.0, you can adjust the concurrency using the [`tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt-new-in-v800) system variable. The default value is `4`. Compared with the previous default value of `16`, the new default value reduces performance when ingesting indexed key-value pairs. You can adjust this system variable based on the workload of your cluster. **tw@hfxsd** <!--no FD-->
```

### MySQL compatibility 

> * The `KEY` partition type supports statements with empty list of partition fields, which is consistent with the behavior of MySQL. **tw@hfxsd** <!--No FD-->

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The `KEY` partition type supports statements with an empty list of partition fields, which is consistent with the behavior of MySQL. **tw@hfxsd** <!--No FD-->
```

| [`tidb_dml_type`](/system-variables.md#tidb_dml_type-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls the execution mode of DML statements. The value options are `"standard"` and `"bulk"`. |
| [`tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Control whether to enable the priority queue to schedule the tasks of automatically collecting statistics. When this variable is enabled, TiDB prioritizes collecting statistics for the tables that most need statistics. |
| [`tidb_enable_concurrent_hashagg_spill`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_concurrent_hashagg_spill-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls whether TiDB supports disk spill for the concurrent HashAgg algorithm. When it is `ON`, disk spill can be triggered for the concurrent HashAgg algorithm. This variable will be deprecated when this feature is generally available in a future release. |

> | [`tidb_enable_fast_create_table`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_create_table-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable Fast [`CREATE TABLE`](/fast-create-table.md). Set the value to `ON` to enable it and `OFF` to disable it. The default value is `ON`. When this variable is enabled, DDL statements will be executed using Fast `CREATE TABLE`. |

Author: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_enable_fast_create_table`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_create_table-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable [TiDB Accerates Table Creation](/fast-create-table.md). Set the value to `ON` to enable it and `OFF` to disable it. The default value is `ON`. When this variable is enabled, DDL statements will be executed using Fast `CREATE TABLE`. |
```

| TiKV | [`security.encryption.master-key.vendor`] | 新增 | 指定住密钥的服务商类型，支持可选值为 `gcp`、`azure` |
| TiDB Lightning  | [`tikv-importer.duplicate-resolution`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-physical-import-mode-usage.md#the-old-version-of-conflict-detection-deprecated-in-v800)  | Deprecated | Controls whether to detect and resolve unique key conflicts in physical import mode. Starting from v8.0.0, it is replaced by [`conflict.strategy`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task). |
| TiDB Lightning  | [`conflict.precheck-conflict-before-import`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task)  | Newly added | Controls whether to enable conflict prechecks, which means that TiDB Lightning checks data conflicts before importing data to TiDB. The default value of this parameter is `false`, which means that TiDB Lightning only checks conflicts after the data import. This parameter can be used only in the physical import mode (`tikv-importer.backend = "local"`).  |

> | TiDB Lightning  | `logical-import-batch-rows` | 新增 | 用于在逻辑导入模式下设置一个 batch 里提交的数据行数，默认值为 `65536`。 |
> | TiDB Lightning  | `logical-import-batch-size` | 新增 | 用于在逻辑导入模式下设置一个 batch 里提交的数据大小，取值为字符串类型，默认值为 `"96KiB"`，单位可以为 KB、KiB、MB、MiB 等存储单位。 |

Author: ```suggestion
| TiDB Lightning  | `logical-import-batch-rows` | Newly added | Controls the maximum number of rows inserted per transaction in Logical Import Mode. The default value is 65,536 rows. |
| TiDB Lightning  | `logical-import-batch-size` | Newly added | Controls the size of each SQL query executed on the downstream TiDB server in Logical Import Mode. The default value is "96KiB". The unit can be KB, KiB, MB, or MiB. |
```

> | TiDB Lightning  | `logical-import-batch-size` | Newly added | Controls the size of each SQL query executed on the downstream TiDB server in Logical Import Mode. The default value is `96KiB`. The unit can be KB, KiB, MB, or MiB. |

Author: ```suggestion
| TiDB Lightning  | `logical-import-batch-size` | Newly added | Controls the size of each SQL query executed on the downstream TiDB server in Logical Import Mode. The default value is "96KiB". The unit can be KB, KiB, MB, or MiB. |
```

* Add a new system schema [`sys`](/sys-schema.md) and a new view [`sys.schema_unused_index`](/sys-schema.md#schema_unused_index), which records indexes that have not been used since the last start of TiDB. **tw@Oreoxmt**

## Deprecated features

- Starting from v8.0.0, the [`tidb_disable_txn_auto_retry`](/system-variables.md#tidb_disable_txn_auto_retry) system variable is deprecated, and TiDB no longer supports automatic retries of optimistic transactions. As an alternative, when encountering optimistic transaction conflicts, you can capture the error and retry transactions in your application, or use the [Pessimistic transaction mode](/pessimistic-transaction.md) instead. **tw@lilin90** <!--1671-->
- Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB no longer supports the TLSv1.0 and TLSv1.1 protocols. You must upgrade TLS to TLSv1.2 or TLSv1.3.

## Improvements

+ Tools

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)
    

>         - In a MariaDB primary and secondary replication scenario, that is, a `MariaDB_primary_instance` -> `MariaDB_secondary_instance` -> `DM` -> `TiDB` migration scenario, when `gtid_strict_mode = off` and the GTID of the `MariaDB_secondary_instance` is not strictly incrementing (for example, there is data writing to the `MariaDB_secondary_instance`), then the DM task will report an error `less than global checkpoint position`, the DM task will report an error `less than global checkpoint position`. Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB is compatible with this scenario and data can be migrated downstream. [#10741](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10741) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1683-->

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - In a MariaDB primary-secondary replication scenario, where the migration path is: MariaDB primary instance -> MariaDB secondary instance -> DM -> TiDB, when `gtid_strict_mode = off` and the GTID of the MariaDB secondary instance is not strictly incrementing (for example, there is data writing to the MariaDB secondary instance), the DM task will report an error `less than global checkpoint position`. Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB is compatible with this scenario and data can be migrated downstream normally. [#10741](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10741) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1683-->
```

>         

Author: ```suggestion
        
    + TiDB Lightning
        
        - 逻辑导入模式下，支持配置批处理最大行数 [#46607](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46607) @[kennytm](https://github.com/kennytm)
        - 区分导入空间检查节点是否是 TiFlash 节点 [#50324](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50324) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)
```

  </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="1">DB Operations and Observability</td>
    <td>Support monitoring index usage statistics **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1400--></td>
    <td>TiDB v8.0.0 introduces the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/information-schema-tidb-index-usage"><code>INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIDB_INDEX_USAGE</code></a> table and the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/sys-schema.md"><code>sys.schema_unused_index</code></a> view to provide usage statistics of indexes. This feature helps you assess the importance of all indexes and optimize the index design.</td>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">Data Migration</td>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/ticdc-bidirectional-replication">TiCDC supports replicating DDL statements in bi-directional replication (BDR) mode (GA) </a>**tw@hfxsd** <!--1682/1689--></td>
    <td>With this feature, TiCDC allows for a cluster to be assigned the <code>PRIMARY</code> BDR role, and enables the replication of DDL statements from that cluster to the downstream cluster.</td>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>TiCDC adds support for the Simple protocol **tw@lilin90** <!--1646--></td>

>     <td>TiCDC introduces support for a new protocol, the Simple protocol. This protocol includes support for in-band schema tracking capabilities.</td>

Reviewer 2: @asddongmen PTAL

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>TiCDC adds support for the Debezium format protocol **tw@lilin90** <!--1652--></td>

>     <td>TiCDC can now publish replication events to a Kafka sink using a protocol that generates Debezium style messages.</td>

Reviewer 2: @hongyunyan PTAL

>     <td>TiCDC can now publish replication events to a Kafka sink using a protocol that generates Debezium style messages.</td>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <td>TiCDC introduces support for a new protocol, the TiCDC Debezium protocol. TiCDC can now publish replication events to a Kafka sink using a protocol that generates Debezium style messages.</td>
```

    - Improve the accuracy of query estimation information when the same row of data is updated multiple times [#47523](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47523) @[terry1purcell](https://github.com/terry1purcell)
    - Index Merge supports embedding multi-value indexes and `OR` operators in `AND` predicates [#51778](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51778) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)
    - Support submitting 16 `IMPORT INTO ... FROM FILE` tasks simultaneously, facilitating bulk data import into the target tables and significantly improving the efficiency and performance of data file import [#49008](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49008) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) **tw@qiancai** <!--1680-->
    - (dup): release-7.1.4.md > Improvements> TiDB -  When `force-init-stats` is set to `true`, TiDB waits for statistics initialization to finish before providing services during TiDB startup. This setting no longer blocks the startup of HTTP servers, which enables users to continue monitoring [#50854](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50854) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

>     - Fix the issue where blocked DDL is not displayed in MDL View when DDL tasks involve multiple tables [#47743](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47743) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)

Reviewer: this item needs to be moved to TiDB bug fixes

    - Reduce the lock contention issue in creating operators [#7837](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7837) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
    - Adjust GRPC configurations to improve availability [#7821](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7821) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR) <!--tw@qiancai, 5 条-->

        - 支持通过新增的恢复参数 `--load-stats` 控制是否恢复统计信息  [#50568](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50568) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - 粗粒度打散 Region 算法支持自适应获取并发参数，提升恢复性能 [#50701](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50701) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - 在 `br` 的命令行帮助信息中显示 `log` 命令 [#50927](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50927) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)
        - 支持在恢复过程中提前分配好 TableID，从而最大限度复用 Table ID，提升恢复性能 [#51736](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51736) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - 使用 BR 时，禁用 TiDB 内部的 gc memory limit tuner 功能，避免 OOM 问题 [#51078](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51078) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

> 

Author: ```suggestion

    + TiCDC <!--tw@hfxsd, 2 条-->

        - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > 改进提升> Tools> TiCDC - 支持[查询 changefeed 的下游同步状态](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v7.5/ticdc-open-api-v2#查询特定同步任务是否完成)，以确认 TiCDC 是否已将所接收到的上游变更完全同步到下游 [#10289](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10289) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan)
        - Reduce memory consumption when TiCDC replicates data by optimizing the memory consumption of `RowChangedEvent` [#10386](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10386) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)
        - Verify that the start-ts parameter is valid when creating and resuming a changefeed task [#10499](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10499) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
```

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)
    
        - In a MariaDB primary-secondary replication scenario, where the migration path is: MariaDB primary instance -> MariaDB secondary instance -> DM -> TiDB, when `gtid_strict_mode = off` and the GTID of the MariaDB secondary instance is not strictly incrementing (for example, there is data writing to the MariaDB secondary instance), the DM task will report an error `less than global checkpoint position`. Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB is compatible with this scenario and data can be migrated downstream normally. [#10741](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10741) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1683-->
        
## Bug fixes

> 

Author: ```suggestion
TiDB

TiKV

    - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > 错误修复> TiKV - 修复开启 `tidb_enable_row_level_checksum` 可能导致 TiKV panic 的问题 [#16371](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16371) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)
    - (dup): release-7.1.4.md > 错误修复> TiKV - 修复休眠的 Region 在异常情况下未被及时唤醒的问题 [#16368](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16368) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)
    - (dup): release-7.1.4.md > 错误修复> TiKV - 通过在执行下线节点操作前检查该 Region 所有副本的上一次心跳时间，修复下线一个副本导致整个 Region 不可用的问题 [#16465](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16465) @[tonyxuqqi](https://github.com/tonyxuqqi)
    - (dup): release-7.1.4.md > 错误修复> TiKV - 修复 JSON 整型数值在大于 `INT64` 最大值但小于 `UINT64` 最大值时会被 TiKV 解析成 `FLOAT64` 导致结果和 TiDB 不一致的问题 [#16512](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16512) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix the issue that sometimes the monitoring metric `tikv_unified_read_pool_thread_count` has no data [#16629](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16629) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
```

        - Support pre-allocating Table ID during the restore process to maximize the reuse of Table ID and improve restore performance [#51736](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51736) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Disable the gc memory limit tuner feature within TiDB when using BR to avoid OOM issues [#51078](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51078) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

    + TiCDC <!--tw@hfxsd, 2 条-->

        - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > 改进提升> Tools> TiCDC - 支持[查询 changefeed 的下游同步状态](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v7.5/ticdc-open-api-v2#查询特定同步任务是否完成)，以确认 TiCDC 是否已将所接收到的上游变更完全同步到下游 [#10289](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10289) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan)
        - Reduce memory consumption when TiCDC replicates data by optimizing the memory consumption of `RowChangedEvent` [#10386](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10386) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)
        - Verify that the start-ts parameter is valid when creating and resuming a changefeed task [#10499](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10499) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

>     

Author: ```suggestion    
```

        - In a MariaDB primary-secondary replication scenario, where the migration path is: MariaDB primary instance -> MariaDB secondary instance -> DM -> TiDB, when `gtid_strict_mode = off` and the GTID of the MariaDB secondary instance is not strictly incrementing (for example, there is data writing to the MariaDB secondary instance), the DM task will report an error `less than global checkpoint position`. Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB is compatible with this scenario and data can be migrated downstream normally. [#10741](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10741) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1683-->
        
    + TiDB Lightning
        
        - In logical import mode, you can configure the maximum number of rows in a batch using `logical-import-batch-rows` [#46607](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46607) @[kennytm](https://github.com/kennytm)
        - If the space of TiFlash is insufficient, an error will be reported for TiFlash [#50324](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50324) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)
## Bug fixes

> + TiDB

Author: ```suggestion

+ TiDB
```

> ## Bug fixes
> + TiDB

Author: ```suggestion

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB
```

    - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复移除 TiFlash 副本后重新添加可能导致 TiFlash 数据损坏的问题 [#8695](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8695) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复在执行 PITR 恢复任务或 `FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO` 后，TiFlash 副本数据可能被意外删除，导致数据异常的问题 [#8777](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8777) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复在执行 `ALTER TABLE ... MODIFY COLUMN ... NOT NULL` 时，将原本可为空的列修改为不可为空之后，导致 TiFlash panic 的问题 [#8419](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8419) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - Fix the issue that in the disaggregated storage and compute architecture, queries might be permanently blocked after network isolation [#8806](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8806) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)
    - Fix the issue that in the disaggregated storage and compute architecture, TiFlash might panic during shutdown [#8837](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8837) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR) <!--tw@hfxsd, 3 条-->
    

>         - Fix the issue that the PITR checkpoint does not advance when a Region splits or merges immediately after it becomes a leader [#16469](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16469) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the PITR checkpoint gets stuck when a Region splits or merges immediately after it becomes a leader [#16469](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16469) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
```

>         - Fix the issue that TiKV panics when a full backup fails to find a peer in some extreme cases [#16394](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16394) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that TiKV panics when a full backup fails to find a peer in some extreme cases [#16394](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16394) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复在同一节点上更改 TiKV IP 地址导致日志备份卡住的问题 [#50445](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50445) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复从 S3 读文件内容时出错后无法重试的问题 [#49942](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49942) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复数据恢复失败后，使用断点重启报错 `the target cluster is not fresh` 的问题 [#50232](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50232) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复停止日志备份任务导致 TiDB crash 的问题 [#50839](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50839) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复由于某个 TiKV 节点缺少 Leader 导致数据恢复变慢的问题 [#50566](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50566) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复全量恢复指定 `--filter` 选项后，仍然要求目标集群为空的问题 [#51009](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51009) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        
    + TiCDC <!--tw@hfxsd, 4 条-->

        - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > 错误修复> Tools> TiCDC - 修复使用 storage sink 时，在存储服务生成的文件序号可能出现回退的问题 [#10352](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10352) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > 错误修复> Tools> TiCDC - 修复并发创建多个 changefeed 时 TiCDC 返回 `ErrChangeFeedAlreadyExists` 错误的问题 [#10430](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10430) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > 错误修复> Tools> TiCDC - 修复在 `ignore-event` 中设置了过滤掉 `add table partition` 事件后，TiCDC 未将相关分区的其它类型 DML 变更事件同步到下游的问题 [#10524](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10524) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > 错误修复> Tools> TiCDC - 修复上游表执行了 `TRUNCATE PARTITION` 后 changefeed 报错的问题 [#10522](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10522) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)
        - (dup): release-7.1.4.md > 错误修复> Tools> TiCDC - 修复恢复 changefeed 时 changefeed 的 `checkpoint-ts` 小于 TiDB 的 GC safepoint，没有及时报错 `snapshot lost caused by GC` 的问题 [#10463](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10463) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)
        - (dup): release-7.1.4.md > 错误修复> Tools> TiCDC - 修复 TiCDC 在开启单行数据正确性校验后由于时区不匹配导致 `TIMESTAMP` 类型 checksum 验证失败的问题 [#10573](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10573) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > 错误修复> Tools> TiCDC - 修复 Syncpoint 表可能被错误同步的问题 [#10576](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10576) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > 错误修复> Tools> TiCDC - 修复当使用 Apache Pulsar 作为下游时，无法正常启用 OAuth2.0、TLS 和 mTLS 的问题 [#10602](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10602) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - A changefeed might get stuck when TiKV upgrades, restarts, or evicts a leader [#10584](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10584) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - Fix the issue that data is written to a wrong CSV file due to wrong BarrierTS in scenarios where DDL statements are executed frequently [#10668](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10668) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)
        - Fix the issue that data race in the KV client causes TiCDC to panic [#10718](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10718) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - Fix the issue TiCDC panics when scheduling table replication tasks [#10613](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10613) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
```

        - In a MariaDB primary-secondary replication scenario, where the migration path is: MariaDB primary instance -> MariaDB secondary instance -> DM -> TiDB, when `gtid_strict_mode = off` and the GTID of the MariaDB secondary instance is not strictly incrementing (for example, there is data writing to the MariaDB secondary instance), the DM task will report an error `less than global checkpoint position`. Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB is compatible with this scenario and data can be migrated downstream normally. [#10741](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10741) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1683-->
        
    + TiDB Lightning
        
        - Support configuring the maximum number of rows in a batch in logical import mode using [`logical-import-batch-rows`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) [#46607](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46607) @[kennytm](https://github.com/kennytm)
        - TiDB Lightning reports an error when the space of TiFlash is insufficient [#50324](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50324) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

>     - Fix the issue where blocked DDL is not displayed in MDL View when DDL tasks involve multiple tables [#47743](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47743) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that blocked DDL statements are not displayed in the MDL View when a DDL task involves multiple tables [#47743](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47743) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
    - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复表的 `ANALYZE` 任务统计的 `processed_rows` 可能超过表的总行数的问题 [#50632](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50632) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复当 `HashJoin` 算子落盘失败时 goroutine 可能泄露的问题 [#50841](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50841) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复 CTE 查询使用的内存超限时可能会导致 goroutine 泄露的问题 [#50337](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50337) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
    - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复使用聚合函数分组计算时可能报错 `Can't find column ...` 的问题 [#50926](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50926) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - (dup): release-7.1.4.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复当 `CREATE TABLE` 语句中包含特定分区或约束的表达式时，表名变更等 DDL 操作会卡住的问题 [#50972](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50972) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
    - (dup): release-7.1.4.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复 Grafana 监控指标 `tidb_statistics_auto_analyze_total` 没有显示为整数的问题 [#51051](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51051) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - (dup): release-7.1.4.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复修改变量 `tidb_server_memory_limit` 后，`tidb_gogc_tuner_threshold` 未进行相应调整的问题 [#48180](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48180) @[hawkingrei]
    - (dup): release-7.1.4.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复当查询语句涉及 JOIN 操作时可能出现 `index out of range` 报错的问题 [#42588](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42588) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - (dup): release-7.1.4.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复当列的默认值被删除时，获取该列的默认值会报错的问题 [#50043](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50043) [#51324](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51324) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash late materialization might generate wrong results when processing related columns [#49241](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49241) [#51204](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51204) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
```

+ TiKV

    - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > 错误修复> TiKV - 修复开启 `tidb_enable_row_level_checksum` 可能导致 TiKV panic 的问题 [#16371](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16371) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)
    - (dup): release-7.1.4.md > 错误修复> TiKV - 修复休眠的 Region 在异常情况下未被及时唤醒的问题 [#16368](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16368) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)
    - (dup): release-7.1.4.md > 错误修复> TiKV - 通过在执行下线节点操作前检查该 Region 所有副本的上一次心跳时间，修复下线一个副本导致整个 Region 不可用的问题 [#16465](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16465) @[tonyxuqqi](https://github.com/tonyxuqqi)
    - (dup): release-7.1.4.md > 错误修复> TiKV - 修复 JSON 整型数值在大于 `INT64` 最大值但小于 `UINT64` 最大值时会被 TiKV 解析成 `FLOAT64` 导致结果和 TiDB 不一致的问题 [#16512](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16512) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix the issue that the monitoring metric `tikv_unified_read_pool_thread_count` has no data in some cases [#16629](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16629) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
    

> + PD
> 

Author: ```suggestion
+ PD <!--tw@lilian90, 6 条-->

    - (dup): release-7.1.4.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复调用 `MergeLabels` 函数时存在数据竞争的问题 [#7535](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7535) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
    - (dup): release-7.1.4.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复调用 `evict-leader-scheduler` 接口时没有输出结果的问题 [#7672](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7672) @[CabinfeverB](https://github.com/CabinfeverB)
    - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复 PD 监控项 `learner-peer-count` 在发生 Leader 切换后未同步旧监控值的问题 [#7728](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7728) @[CabinfeverB](https://github.com/CabinfeverB)
    - (dup): release-7.1.4.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复 `watch etcd` 没有正确关闭导致内存泄露的问题 [#7807](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7807) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - (dup): release-7.1.4.md > 修复 TSO 部分日志没有打印报错原因的问题 [#7496](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7496) @[CabinfeverB](https://github.com/CabinfeverB)
    - Fix the issue that there are unexpected negative monitoring metrics after restart [#4489](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4489) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
    - Fix the issue that the Leader lease expires later than the log time [#7700](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7700) @[CabinfeverB](https://github.com/CabinfeverB)
    - 修复 PD 客户端 TLS 相关的问题 [#7900](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7900) [#7902](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7902) [#7916](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7916) @[CabinfeverB](https://github.com/CabinfeverB)
    - Fix the issue that Goroutine leaks when it is not closed properly [#7782](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7782) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
    - Fix the issue that pd-ctl cannot remove a scheduler that contains special characters [#7798](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7798) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato)
    - Fix the issue that the PD client might be blocked when getting TSO [#7864](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7864) @[CabinfeverB](https://github.com/CabinfeverB)
```

---
title: TiDB 8.0.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 8.0.0.
---

# TiDB 8.0.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2024

TiDB version: 8.0.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v8.0.0#version-list)

8.0.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature/Enhancement</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="4">Scalability and Performance</td>

>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/pd-microservices">Disaggregation of PD to improve scalability (experimental) </td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/pd-microservices">Disaggregation of PD to improve scalability (experimental)</a> </td>
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_redact_log).

### Data migration

* TiCDC adds support for the Simple protocol [#9898](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9898) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand) **tw@lilin90** <!--1646-->

    TiCDC introduces support for a new protocol, the Simple protocol. This protocol includes support for in-band schema tracking capabilities by embedding schema information in DDL and BOOTSTRAP events.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-simple-protocol.md).

* TiCDC adds support for the Debezium format protocol [#1799](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/1799) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish) **tw@lilin90** <!--1652-->

    TiCDC can now publish replication events to a Kafka sink using a protocol that generates event messages in a Debezium style format. This helps to simplify the migration from MySQL to TiDB for users who are currently using Debezium to pull data from MySQL for downstream processing.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-debezium.md).

> 
> * TiCDC supports replicating DDL statements in bi-directional replication (BDR) mode (GA) [#10301](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10301) [#48519](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48519) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1689/1682-->
> 
>     TiDB v7.6.0 introduces replicating DDL statements in BDR mode as an experimental feature. Previously, replicating DDL statements was not supported by TiCDC, so users of TiCDC bi-directional replication had to apply DDL statements to both TiDB clusters separately. With this feature, TiCDC allows for a cluster to be assigned the `PRIMARY` BDR role, and enables the replication of DDL statements from that cluster to the downstream cluster. In v8.0.0, this feature becomes generally available (GA).
> 
>     For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-bidirectional-replication.md).

Author: ```suggestion
```

### Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| TiDB | [`instance.tidb_enable_collect_execution_info`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#tidb_enable_collect_execution_info) | Modified | Adds a control to whether to record the [usage statistics of indexes](/information-schema/information-schema-tidb-index-usage.md). The default value is `true`. |
| TiDB | [`tls-version`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#tls-version) | Modified | This parameter no longer supports `"TLSv1.0"` and `"TLSv1.1"`. Now it only supports `"TLSv1.2"` and `"TLSv1.3"`. |
| TiDB  | [`log.file.compression`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#compression-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Specifies the compression format of the polling log. The default value is null, which means that the polling log is not compressed. |
| TiDB  | [`log.general-log-file`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#general-log-file-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Specifies the file to save the general log to. The default is null, which means that the general log will be written to the instance file. |

> | TiDB | [`tikv-client.enable-replica-selector-v2`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#enable-replica-selector-v2-从-v800-版本开始引入) | 新增 | 控制是否使用 replica selector v2 版本，默认值为 `true`。 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| TiDB | [`tikv-client.enable-replica-selector-v2`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#enable-replica-selector-v2-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls whether to use the new version of the Region replica selector when sending RPC requests to TiKV. The default value is `true`. |
```

| TiKV | [`log-backup.initial-scan-rate-limit`](/system-variables.md#initial-scan-rate-limit-new-in-v620) | Modified | Add a limit of `1MiB` as the minimum value. |

> | TiKV | [`raftstore.store-io-pool-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#store-io-pool-size-new-in-v530) | Modified | Change the default value from `0` to `1` to improve TiKV performance, meaning that the size of the StoreWriter thread pool now defaults to `1`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| TiKV | [`raftstore.store-io-pool-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#store-io-pool-size-new-in-v530) | Modified | Change the default value from `0` to `1` to improve TiKV performance, meaning that the size of the StoreWriter thread pool now defaults to `1`. |
| TiKV | [`rocksdb.defaultcf.titan.blob-cache-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#blob-cache-size) | 修改 | 从 v8.0.0 开始，TiKV 引入了 `shared-blob-cache` 配置项并默认开启，因此无需再单独设置 `blob-cache-size`。只有当 `shared-blob-cache` 设置为 `false` 时，`blob-cache-size` 的设置才生效。|
| TiKV | [`shared-blob-cache`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#shared-blob-cache-tidb-从-v800-版本开始引入) | 新增 | 控制是否启用 Titan Blob 文件和 RocksDB Block 文件的共享缓存。默认值为 `true`。|
```

> | TiKV | [`security.encryption.master-key.vendor`] | 新增 | 指定住密钥的服务商类型，支持可选值为 `gcp`、`azure` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| TiKV | [`security.encryption.master-key.vendor`](/encryption-at-rest.md#specify-a-master-key-via-kms) | Modified | 主密钥的服务商类型的可选值新增 `gcp`。 |
```

| TiDB Lightning  | [`tikv-importer.duplicate-resolution`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-physical-import-mode-usage.md#the-old-version-of-conflict-detection-deprecated-in-v800)  | Deprecated | Controls whether to detect and resolve unique key conflicts in physical import mode. Starting from v8.0.0, it is replaced by [`conflict.strategy`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task). |

> | TiDB Lightning  | [`conflict.precheck-conflict-before-import`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task)  | Newly added | Controls whether to enable conflict prechecks, which means that TiDB Lightning checks data conflicts before importing data to TiDB. The default value of this parameter is `false`, which means that TiDB Lightning only checks conflicts after the data import. This parameter can be used only in the physical import mode (`tikv-importer.backend = "local"`).  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| TiDB Lightning  | [`conflict.precheck-conflict-before-import`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task)  | Newly added | Controls whether to enable preprocess conflict detection, which checks conflicts in data before importing it to TiDB. The default value of this parameter is `false`, which means that TiDB Lightning only checks conflicts after the data import. This parameter can be used only in the physical import mode (`tikv-importer.backend = "local"`).  |
```

| TiDB Lightning  | [`logical-import-batch-rows`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) | Newly added | Controls the maximum number of rows inserted per transaction in Logical Import Mode. The default value is `65536` rows. |
| TiDB Lightning  | [`logical-import-batch-size`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) | Newly added | Controls the size of each SQL query executed on the downstream TiDB server in Logical Import Mode. The default value is `"96KiB"`. The unit can be KB, KiB, MB, or MiB. |

> | Data Migration  |  [`secret-key-path`](/dm/dm-master-configuration-file.md) | Newly added | Specifies the file path of the key, which is used to encrypt and decrypt upstream and downstream passwords. The file must contain a 64-character hexadecimal AES-256 key. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Data Migration  |  [`secret-key-path`](/dm/dm-master-configuration-file.md) | Newly added | Specifies the file path of the secret key, which is used to encrypt and decrypt upstream and downstream passwords. The file must contain a 64-character hexadecimal AES-256 secret key. |
```

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)
        - In a MariaDB primary-secondary replication scenario, where the migration path is: MariaDB primary instance -> MariaDB secondary instance -> DM -> TiDB, when `gtid_strict_mode = off` and the GTID of the MariaDB secondary instance is not strictly incrementing (for example, there is data writing to the MariaDB secondary instance), the DM task will report an error `less than global checkpoint position`. Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB is compatible with this scenario and data can be migrated downstream normally. [#10741](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10741) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1683-->
        
    + TiDB Lightning
        
        - Support configuring the maximum number of rows in a batch in logical import mode using [`logical-import-batch-rows`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) [#46607](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46607) @[kennytm](https://github.com/kennytm)
        - TiDB Lightning reports an error when the space of TiFlash is insufficient [#50324](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50324) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

> 

Author: ```suggestion

    - Fix the issue that `auto analyze` is triggered multiple times when there is no data change [#51775](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51775) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
    - Fix the issue that the `auto analyze` concurrency is set incorrectly [#51749](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51749) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Fix the issue of data inconsistency caused by adding multiple indexes with multi-schema optimization [#51746](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51746) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
```

  </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="1">DB Operations and Observability</td>
    <td>Support monitoring index usage statistics **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1400--></td>
    <td>TiDB v8.0.0 introduces the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/information-schema-tidb-index-usage"><code>INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIDB_INDEX_USAGE</code></a> table and the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/sys-schema.md"><code>sys.schema_unused_index</code></a> view to provide usage statistics of indexes. This feature helps you assess the importance of all indexes and optimize the index design.</td>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">Data Migration</td>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/ticdc-bidirectional-replication">TiCDC supports replicating DDL statements in bi-directional replication (BDR) mode (GA) </a>**tw@hfxsd** <!--1682/1689--></td>
    <td>With this feature, TiCDC allows for a cluster to be assigned the <code>PRIMARY</code> BDR role, and enables the replication of DDL statements from that cluster to the downstream cluster.</td>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>TiCDC adds support for the Simple protocol **tw@lilin90** <!--1646--></td>

>     <td>TiCDC introduces support for a new protocol, the Simple protocol. This protocol includes support for in-band schema tracking capabilities.</td>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <td>TiCDC introduces support for a new protocol, the Simple protocol. This protocol includes support for in-band schema tracking capabilities by embedding schema information in DDL and BOOTSTRAP events.</td>
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/encryption-at-rest.md##tikv-encryption-at-rest).

* Enhance TiDB log desensitization [#51306](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51306) @[xhebox](https://github.com/xhebox) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1229-->

    The enhancement of TiDB log desensitization is based on marking SQL text information in log files, facilitating the safe display of sensitive data when users view the logs. You can control whether to desensitize log information to enable secure use of TiDB logs in different scenarios, enhancing the security and flexibility of using log desensitization. To use this feature, set the system variable `tidb_redact_log` to `MARKER`. This marks the SQL text in TiDB logs. When you view the logs, sensitive data is securely displayed based on the markers, thus protecting the log information.

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_redact_log).

### Data migration

* TiCDC adds support for the Simple protocol [#9898](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9898) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand) **tw@lilin90** <!--1646-->

>     TiCDC introduces support for a new protocol, the Simple protocol. This protocol includes support for in-band schema tracking capabilities.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    TiCDC introduces support for a new protocol, the Simple protocol. This protocol includes support for in-band schema tracking capabilities by embedding schema information in DDL and BOOTSTRAP events.
```

| TiKV | [`security.encryption.master-key.vendor`] | 新增 | 指定住密钥的服务商类型，支持可选值为 `gcp`、`azure` |
| TiDB Lightning  | [`tikv-importer.duplicate-resolution`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-physical-import-mode-usage.md#the-old-version-of-conflict-detection-deprecated-in-v800)  | Deprecated | Controls whether to detect and resolve unique key conflicts in physical import mode. Starting from v8.0.0, it is replaced by [`conflict.strategy`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task). |
| TiDB Lightning  | [`conflict.precheck-conflict-before-import`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task)  | Newly added | Controls whether to enable conflict prechecks, which means that TiDB Lightning checks data conflicts before importing data to TiDB. The default value of this parameter is `false`, which means that TiDB Lightning only checks conflicts after the data import. This parameter can be used only in the physical import mode (`tikv-importer.backend = "local"`).  |

> | TiDB Lightning  | `logical-import-batch-rows` | Newly added | Controls the maximum number of rows inserted per transaction in Logical Import Mode. The default value is `65536` rows. |
> | TiDB Lightning  | `logical-import-batch-size` | Newly added | Controls the size of each SQL query executed on the downstream TiDB server in Logical Import Mode. The default value is `"96KiB"`. The unit can be KB, KiB, MB, or MiB. |

Author: ```suggestion
| TiDB Lightning  | [`logical-import-batch-rows`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) | Newly added | Controls the maximum number of rows inserted per transaction in Logical Import Mode. The default value is `65536` rows. |
| TiDB Lightning  | [`logical-import-batch-size`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) | Newly added | Controls the size of each SQL query executed on the downstream TiDB server in Logical Import Mode. The default value is `"96KiB"`. The unit can be KB, KiB, MB, or MiB. |
```

* Add a new system schema [`sys`](/sys-schema.md) and a new view [`sys.schema_unused_index`](/sys-schema.md#schema_unused_index), which records indexes that have not been used since the last start of TiDB. **tw@Oreoxmt**

## Deprecated features

- Starting from v8.0.0, the [`tidb_disable_txn_auto_retry`](/system-variables.md#tidb_disable_txn_auto_retry) system variable is deprecated, and TiDB no longer supports automatic retries of optimistic transactions. As an alternative, when encountering optimistic transaction conflicts, you can capture the error and retry transactions in your application, or use the [Pessimistic transaction mode](/pessimistic-transaction.md) instead. **tw@lilin90** <!--1671-->
- Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB no longer supports the TLSv1.0 and TLSv1.1 protocols. You must upgrade TLS to TLSv1.2 or TLSv1.3.

## Improvements

+ TiDB <!--tw@qiancai, 18 条-->

>     - Improve the data spill performance of the `Sort` operator [#47733](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47733) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1609-->
>     - Support canceling queries during the data spill process, which optimizes the exit mechanism of the data spill feature [#50511](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50511) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12) **tw@qiancai** <!--1635-->
>     - Support using an index that matches partial conditions to construct Index Join when processing table join queries with multiple equal conditions [#47233](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47233) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1601-->
>     - Enhance the capability of Index Merge to identify sorting requirements in queries and select indexes that meet the sorting requirements [#48359](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48359) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
>     - When the `Apply` operator is not executed concurrently, TiDB enables you to view the name of the operator that blocks the concurrency by executing `SHOW WARNINGS` [#50256](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50256) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
>     - Optimize the index selection for `point get` queries by selecting the most optimal index for queries when all indexes support `point get` queries, which  @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520)
>     - Temporarily adjust the priority of statistics synchronously loading tasks to high to avoid widespread timeouts during TiKV high loads, as these timeouts might result in statistics not being loaded [#50332](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50332) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
>     - When the `PREPARE` statement fails to hit the execution plan cache, TiDB enables you to view the reason by executing `SHOW WARNINGS` [#50407](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50407) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
>     - Improve the accuracy of query estimation information when the same row of data is updated multiple times [#47523](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47523) @[terry1purcell](https://github.com/terry1purcell)
>     - Index Merge supports embedding multi-value indexes and `OR` operators in `AND` predicates [#51778](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51778) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)
>     - Support submitting 16 `IMPORT INTO ... FROM FILE` tasks simultaneously, facilitating bulk data import into the target tables and significantly improving the efficiency and performance of data file import [#49008](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49008) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) **tw@qiancai** <!--1680-->
>     - (dup): release-7.1.4.md > Improvements> TiDB -  When `force-init-stats` is set to `true`, TiDB waits for statistics initialization to finish before providing services during TiDB startup. This setting no longer blocks the startup of HTTP servers, which enables users to continue monitoring [#50854](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50854) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
>     - Fix the issue where blocked DDL is not displayed in MDL View when DDL tasks involve multiple tables [#47743](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47743) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
>     - Improve the performance of executing the `CREATE TABLE` DDL statement by 10 times and support linear scalability [#50052](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50052) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Improve the performance of executing the `CREATE TABLE` DDL statement by 10 times and support linear scalability [#50052](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50052) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
    - Support submitting 16 `IMPORT INTO ... FROM FILE` tasks simultaneously, facilitating bulk data import into the target tables and significantly improving the efficiency and performance of data file import [#49008](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49008) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) **tw@qiancai** <!--1680-->
    - Improve the data spill performance of the `Sort` operator [#47733](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47733) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1609-->
    - Support canceling queries during the data spill process, which optimizes the exit mechanism of the data spill feature [#50511](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50511) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12) **tw@qiancai** <!--1635-->
    - Support using an index that matches partial conditions to construct Index Join when processing table join queries with multiple equal conditions [#47233](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47233) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1601-->
    - Enhance the capability of Index Merge to identify sorting requirements in queries and select indexes that meet the sorting requirements [#48359](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48359) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - When the `Apply` operator is not executed concurrently, TiDB enables you to view the name of the operator that blocks the concurrency by executing `SHOW WARNINGS` [#50256](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50256) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Optimize the index selection for `point get` queries by selecting the most optimal index for queries when all indexes support `point get` queries, which  @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520)
    - Temporarily adjust the priority of statistics synchronously loading tasks to high to avoid widespread timeouts during TiKV high loads, as these timeouts might result in statistics not being loaded [#50332](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50332) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
    - When the `PREPARE` statement fails to hit the execution plan cache, TiDB enables you to view the reason by executing `SHOW WARNINGS` [#50407](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50407) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Improve the accuracy of query estimation information when the same row of data is updated multiple times [#47523](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47523) @[terry1purcell](https://github.com/terry1purcell)
    - Index Merge supports embedding multi-value indexes and `OR` operators in `AND` predicates [#51778](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51778) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)
    - (dup): release-7.1.4.md > Improvements> TiDB -  When `force-init-stats` is set to `true`, TiDB waits for statistics initialization to finish before providing services during TiDB startup. This setting no longer blocks the startup of HTTP servers, which enables users to continue monitoring [#50854](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50854) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
```

+ TiKV <!--tw@Oreoxmt, 13 条-->

>     - Enhance TSO verification and detection to improve the robustness of the cluster TSO when the configuration or operation is improper [#16545](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16545) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk) **tw@qiancai** <!--1624-->
>     - Optimize the logic of cleaning up pessimistic locks to improve the processing performance of uncommitted transactions [#16158](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16158) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1661-->

Author: ```suggestion
    - Enhance TSO verification and detection to improve the robustness of the cluster TSO when the configuration or operation is improper [#16545](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16545) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)
    - Optimize the logic of cleaning up pessimistic locks to improve the processing performance of uncommitted transactions [#16158](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16158) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)
```

    - Introduce unified health control for TiKV to reduce the impact of abnormal single TiKV node on cluster access performance. You can disable this optimization by setting [`tikv-client.enable-replica-selector-v2`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#enable-replica-selector-v2-new-in-v800) to `false`. [#16297](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16297) [#1104](https://github.com/tikv/client-go/issues/1104) [#1167](https://github.com/tikv/client-go/issues/1167) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520) **tw@qiancai** <!--1707-->

>     - The PD client uses the metadata storage interface to replace the previous global configuration [#14484](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14484) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)

Author: ```suggestion
    - The PD client uses the metadata storage interface to replace the previous global configuration interface [#14484](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14484) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
```

    - Enhance the scanning performance by determining the data loading behavior through write cf stats [#16245](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16245) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - Check the latest heartbeat for nodes being deleted and voters being demoted during the Raft conf change process to ensure that this behavior does not make the Region inaccessible [#15799](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15799) @[tonyxuqqi](https://github.com/tonyxuqqi)
    - Add Flush and BufferBatchGet interfaces for Pipelined DML [#16291](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16291) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium)

>     - Improve monitoring for cgroup CPU and memory limits [#16392](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16392) @[pingandb](https://github.com/pingandb)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Add monitoring and alerting for cgroup CPU and memory limits [#16392](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16392) @[pingandb](https://github.com/pingandb)
```

    - Add CPU monitoring for Region workers and snapshot generation workers [#16562](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16562) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - Add slow logs for peer and store messages [#16600](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16600) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)

+ PD <!--tw@Oreoxmt, 11 条-->

    - Enhance the service discovery capability of the PD client to improve its high availability and load balancing [#7576](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7576) @[CabinfeverB](https://github.com/CabinfeverB)
    - Enhance the retry mechanism of the PD client [#7673](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7673) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato)

>     - Add monitoring and alerting for cgroup [#7716](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7716) [#7918](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7918) @[pingandb](https://github.com/pingandb) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
>     - improve the performance and high availability when using Etcd watch [#7738](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7738) [#7724](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7724) [#7689](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7689) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Add monitoring and alerting for cgroup CPU and memory limits [#7716](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7716) [#7918](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7918) @[pingandb](https://github.com/pingandb) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - Improve the performance and high availability when using etcd watch [#7738](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7738) [#7724](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7724) [#7689](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7689) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
```

    - Add more monitoring metrics for heartbeat to better analyze performance bottlenecks [#7868](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7868) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)

>     - Reduce the impact of the Etc leader on the PD leader [#7499](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7499) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Reduce the impact of the etcd leader on the PD leader [#7499](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7499) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
```

>     - Enhance the detection mechanism for unhealthy Etcd nodes [#7730](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7730) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Enhance the detection mechanism for unhealthy etcd nodes [#7730](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7730) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
```

        - Enhance restore performance by enabling the coarse-grained Region scatter algorithm to adaptively obtain concurrent parameters [#50701](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50701) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - Display the `log` command in the command-line help information of `br` [#50927](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50927) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)
        - Support pre-allocating Table ID during the restore process to maximize the reuse of Table ID and improve restore performance [#51736](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51736) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Disable the gc memory limit tuner feature within TiDB when using BR to avoid OOM issues [#51078](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51078) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

    + TiCDC <!--tw@hfxsd, 2 条-->

        - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > 改进提升> Tools> TiCDC - 支持[查询 changefeed 的下游同步状态](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v7.5/ticdc-open-api-v2#查询特定同步任务是否完成)，以确认 TiCDC 是否已将所接收到的上游变更完全同步到下游 [#10289](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10289) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan)

>         - Reduce memory consumption when TiCDC replicates data by optimizing the memory consumption of `RowChangedEvent` [#10386](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10386) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Optimize the memory consumption of `RowChangedEvent` to reduce memory consumption when TiCDC replicates data [#10386](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10386) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)
```

        - Verify that the start-ts parameter is valid when creating and resuming a changefeed task [#10499](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10499) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)
        - In a MariaDB primary-secondary replication scenario, where the migration path is: MariaDB primary instance -> MariaDB secondary instance -> DM -> TiDB, when `gtid_strict_mode = off` and the GTID of the MariaDB secondary instance is not strictly incrementing (for example, there is data writing to the MariaDB secondary instance), the DM task will report an error `less than global checkpoint position`. Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB is compatible with this scenario and data can be migrated downstream normally. [#10741](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10741) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1683-->
        
    + TiDB Lightning
        

>         - In logical import mode, you can configure the maximum number of rows in a batch using `logical-import-batch-rows` [#46607](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46607) @[kennytm](https://github.com/kennytm)

Author: ```suggestion
        - In logical import mode, you can configure the maximum number of rows in a batch using [`logical-import-batch-rows`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) [#46607](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46607) @[kennytm](https://github.com/kennytm)
```

        - If the space of TiFlash is insufficient, an error will be reported for TiFlash [#50324](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50324) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    - Fix the issue where blocked DDL is not displayed in MDL View when DDL tasks involve multiple tables [#47743](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47743) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)

```

---

# TiDB 8.0.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2024

TiDB version: 8.0.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v8.0.0#version-list)

8.0.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature/Enhancement</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="4">Scalability and Performance</td>
    <td>Disaggregation of PD to improve scale (experimental) **tw@qiancai** <!--1553, 1558--></td>
    <td>PD (Placement Driver) has a lot of critical modules for the running of TiDB. Each module's resource consumption can increase as certain workloads scale, meaning they can each interfere with other functions in PD, ultimately impacting quality of service of the cluster. By separating PD modules into separately-deployable services, their blast radii are massively mitigated as the cluster scales. Much larger clusters with much larger workloads are possible with this architecture.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/system-variables#tidb_dml_type-new-in-v800">Bulk DML for much larger transactions (experimental)</a>**tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1694--></td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/system-variables#tidb_dml_type-new-in-v800">Bulk DML for much larger transactions (experimental)</a></td>
```

    <td>Large batch DML jobs, such as extensive cleanup jobs, joins, or aggregations, can consume a significant amount of memory and have previously been limited at very large scales. Bulk DML (<code>tidb_dml_type = "bulk"</code>) is a new DML type for handling large batch DML tasks more efficiently while providing transaction guarantees and mitigating OOM issues. This feature differs from import, load, and restore operations when used for data loading.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>Acceleration of cluster snapshot restore speed **tw@qiancai** <!--1681--></td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>Acceleration of cluster snapshot restore speed </td>
```

    <td>An optimization to involve all TiKV nodes in the preparation step for cluster restores was introduced to leverage scale such that restore speeds for a cluster are much faster for larger sets of data on larger clusters. Real world tests exhibit restore acceleration of ~300% in slower cases.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/system-variables#tidb_schema_cache_size-new-in-v800">Enhance stability of caching the schema information when there are a massive number of tables (experimental)</a>**tw@hfxsd** <!--1691--></td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/system-variables#tidb_schema_cache_size-new-in-v800">Enhance stability of caching the schema information when there are a massive number of tables (experimental)</a></td>
```

    <td>SaaS companies using TiDB as the system of record for their multi-tenant applications often need to store a substantial number of tables. In previous versions, handling table counts in the order of a million or more was feasible, but it had the potential to degrade the overall user experience. TiDB v8.0.0 improves the situation with the following enhancements:
  <ul>
    <li>- Introduce a new <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/system-variables#tidb_schema_cache_size-new-in-v800">schema information caching system</a>, incorporating a lazy-loading Least Recently Used (LRU) cache for table metadata and more efficiently managing schema version changes.</li>
    <li>- Implement a <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/system-variables#tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue-new-in-v800">priority queue</a> for <code>auto analyze</code>, making the process less rigid and enhancing stability across a wider array of tables.</li>
  </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="1">DB Operations and Observability</td>

>     <td>Support monitoring index usage statistics **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1400--></td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>Support monitoring index usage statistics </td>
```

    <td>TiDB v8.0.0 introduces the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/information-schema-tidb-index-usage"><code>INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIDB_INDEX_USAGE</code></a> table and the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/sys-schema.md"><code>sys.schema_unused_index</code></a> view to provide usage statistics of indexes. This feature helps you assess the importance of all indexes and optimize the index design.</td>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">Data Migration</td>

>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/ticdc-bidirectional-replication">TiCDC supports replicating DDL statements in bi-directional replication (BDR) mode (GA) </a>**tw@hfxsd** <!--1682/1689--></td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/ticdc-bidirectional-replication">TiCDC supports replicating DDL statements in bi-directional replication (BDR) mode (GA) </a></td>
```

    <td>With this feature, TiCDC allows for a cluster to be assigned the <code>PRIMARY</code> BDR role, and enables the replication of DDL statements from that cluster to the downstream cluster.</td>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>TiCDC adds support for the Simple protocol **tw@lilin90** <!--1646--></td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>TiCDC adds support for the Simple protocol </td>
```

| [`tidb_dml_type`](/system-variables.md#tidb_dml_type-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls the execution mode of DML statements. The value options are `"standard"` and `"bulk"`. |
| [`tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Control whether to enable the priority queue to schedule the tasks of automatically collecting statistics. When this variable is enabled, TiDB prioritizes collecting statistics for the tables that most need statistics. |
| [`tidb_enable_concurrent_hashagg_spill`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_concurrent_hashagg_spill-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls whether TiDB supports disk spill for the concurrent HashAgg algorithm. When it is `ON`, disk spill can be triggered for the concurrent HashAgg algorithm. This variable will be deprecated when this feature is generally available in a future release. |

> | [`tidb_enable_fast_create_table`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_create_table-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable [TiDB Accerates Table Creation](/fast-create-table.md). Set the value to `ON` to enable it and `OFF` to disable it. The default value is `ON`. When this variable is enabled, TiDB accelerates table creation by using [`CREATE TABLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-table.md). |

Author: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_enable_fast_create_table`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_create_table-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable [TiDB Accerates Table Creation](/accelerated-table-creation.md). Set the value to `ON` to enable it and `OFF` to disable it. The default value is `ON`. When this variable is enabled, TiDB accelerates table creation by using [`CREATE TABLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-table.md). |
```

- Starting from v8.0.0, the [`tidb_disable_txn_auto_retry`](/system-variables.md#tidb_disable_txn_auto_retry) system variable is deprecated, and TiDB no longer supports automatic retries of optimistic transactions. As an alternative, when encountering optimistic transaction conflicts, you can capture the error and retry transactions in your application, or use the [Pessimistic transaction mode](/pessimistic-transaction.md) instead. **tw@lilin90** <!--1671-->
- Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB no longer supports the TLSv1.0 and TLSv1.1 protocols. You must upgrade TLS to TLSv1.2 or TLSv1.3.

## Improvements

+ TiDB <!--tw@qiancai, 18 条-->

    - Improve the performance of executing the `CREATE TABLE` DDL statement by 10 times and support linear scalability [#50052](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50052) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
    - Support submitting 16 `IMPORT INTO ... FROM FILE` tasks simultaneously, facilitating bulk data import into the target tables and significantly improving the efficiency and performance of data file import [#49008](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49008) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) **tw@qiancai** <!--1680-->

>     - Improve the data spill performance of the `Sort` operator [#47733](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47733) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1609-->
>     - Support canceling queries during the data spill process, which optimizes the exit mechanism of the data spill feature [#50511](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50511) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12) **tw@qiancai** <!--1635-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Improve the performance of spilling data to disk for the `Sort` operator [#47733](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47733) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1609-->
    - Support canceling queries during spilling data to disk, which optimizes the exit mechanism of the data spill feature [#50511](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50511) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12) **tw@qiancai** <!--1635-->
```

    - Support using an index that matches partial conditions to construct Index Join when processing table join queries with multiple equal conditions [#47233](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47233) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1601-->
    - Enhance the capability of Index Merge to identify sorting requirements in queries and select indexes that meet the sorting requirements [#48359](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48359) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - When the `Apply` operator is not executed concurrently, TiDB enables you to view the name of the operator that blocks the concurrency by executing `SHOW WARNINGS` [#50256](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50256) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

>     - Optimize the index selection for `point get` queries by selecting the most optimal index for queries when all indexes support `point get` queries, which  @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Optimize the index selection for `point get` queries by selecting the most optimal index for queries when all indexes support `point get` queries @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520)
```

    - Reduce the lock contention issue in creating operators [#7837](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7837) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
    - Adjust GRPC configurations to improve availability [#7821](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7821) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR) <!--tw@qiancai, 5 条-->

        - Support controlling whether to restore statistics using the newly added restore parameter `--load-stats` [#50568](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50568) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Enhance restore performance by enabling the coarse-grained Region scatter algorithm to adaptively obtain concurrent parameters [#50701](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50701) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - Display the `log` command in the command-line help information of `br` [#50927](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50927) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)
        - Support pre-allocating Table ID during the restore process to maximize the reuse of Table ID and improve restore performance [#51736](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51736) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

>         - Disable the gc memory limit tuner feature within TiDB when using BR to avoid OOM issues [#51078](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51078) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Disable the GC memory limit tuner feature within TiDB when using BR to avoid OOM issues [#51078](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51078) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
```

    + TiCDC <!--tw@hfxsd, 2 条-->

>         - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > 改进提升> Tools> TiCDC - 支持[查询 changefeed 的下游同步状态](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v7.5/ticdc-open-api-v2#查询特定同步任务是否完成)，以确认 TiCDC 是否已将所接收到的上游变更完全同步到下游 [#10289](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10289) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

        - Optimize the memory consumption of `RowChangedEvent` to reduce memory consumption when TiCDC replicates data [#10386](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10386) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)
        - Verify that the start-ts parameter is valid when creating and resuming a changefeed task [#10499](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10499) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)
        - In a MariaDB primary-secondary replication scenario, where the migration path is: MariaDB primary instance -> MariaDB secondary instance -> DM -> TiDB, when `gtid_strict_mode = off` and the GTID of the MariaDB secondary instance is not strictly incrementing (for example, there is data writing to the MariaDB secondary instance), the DM task will report an error `less than global checkpoint position`. Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB is compatible with this scenario and data can be migrated downstream normally. [#10741](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10741) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1683-->
        
    + TiDB Lightning
        

>         - In logical import mode, you can configure the maximum number of rows in a batch using [`logical-import-batch-rows`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) [#46607](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46607) @[kennytm](https://github.com/kennytm)
>         - If the space of TiFlash is insufficient, an error will be reported for TiFlash [#50324](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50324) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Support configuring the maximum number of rows in a batch in logical import mode using [`logical-import-batch-rows`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) [#46607](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46607) @[kennytm](https://github.com/kennytm)
        - TiDB Lightning reports an error when the space of TiFlash is insufficient [#50324](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50324) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)
```

    - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复移除 TiFlash 副本后重新添加可能导致 TiFlash 数据损坏的问题 [#8695](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8695) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复在执行 PITR 恢复任务或 `FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO` 后，TiFlash 副本数据可能被意外删除，导致数据异常的问题 [#8777](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8777) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复在执行 `ALTER TABLE ... MODIFY COLUMN ... NOT NULL` 时，将原本可为空的列修改为不可为空之后，导致 TiFlash panic 的问题 [#8419](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8419) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - Fix the issue that in the disaggregated storage and compute architecture, queries might be permanently blocked after network isolation [#8806](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8806) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)
    - Fix the issue that in the disaggregated storage and compute architecture, TiFlash might panic during shutdown [#8837](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8837) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR) <!--tw@hfxsd, 3 条-->
    

>         - Fix the issue that the PITR checkpoint gets stuck when a Region splits or merges immediately after it becomes a leader [#16469](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16469) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the log backup checkpoint cannot advance when a Region is split or merged immediately after it becomes a leader [#16469](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16469) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
```

        - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > 错误修复> Tools> TiCDC - 修复当使用 Apache Pulsar 作为下游时，无法正常启用 OAuth2.0、TLS 和 mTLS 的问题 [#10602](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10602) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - Fix the issue that a changefeed might get stuck when TiKV upgrades, restarts, or evicts a leader [#10584](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10584) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - Fix the issue that data is written to a wrong CSV file due to wrong BarrierTS in scenarios where DDL statements are executed frequently [#10668](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10668) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)
        - Fix the issue that data race in the KV client causes TiCDC to panic [#10718](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10718) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - Fix the issue TiCDC panics when scheduling table replication tasks [#10613](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10613) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

>         - Fix the issue that data is lost when upstream is a primary key of binary type [[#10672](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10672) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that data is lost when the upstream primary key is of binary type [#10672](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10672) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
```

    + TiDB Lightning

        - Fix the performance regression issue caused by checking TiKV space [#43636](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43636) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

>         - Fix the issue that the value of `DATETIME` is incorrectly encoded in `NO_ZERO_IN_DATE` SQL mode [#50757](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50757) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
>         - Fix the issue that broken symlinks are not ignored when importing data [#49423](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49423) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

---
title: TiDB 8.0.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 8.0.0.
---

> 

Author: Preview https://preview-doc.oreo.life/tidb/dev/release-8.0.0

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/system-variables#tidb_dml_type-new-in-v800">Bulk DML for much larger transactions (experimental)</a></td>
    <td>Large batch DML jobs, such as extensive cleanup jobs, joins, or aggregations, can consume a significant amount of memory and have previously been limited at very large scales. Bulk DML (<code>tidb_dml_type = "bulk"</code>) is a new DML type for handling large batch DML tasks more efficiently while providing transaction guarantees and mitigating OOM issues. This feature differs from import, load, and restore operations when used for data loading.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>Acceleration of cluster snapshot restore speed </td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/br-snapshot-guide#restore-cluster-snapshots">Acceleration of cluster snapshot restore speed (GA) </a></td>
```

    <td>An optimization to involve all TiKV nodes in the preparation step for cluster restores was introduced to leverage scale such that restore speeds for a cluster are much faster for larger sets of data on larger clusters. Real world tests exhibit restore acceleration of ~300% in slower cases.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/system-variables#tidb_schema_cache_size-new-in-v800">Enhance stability of caching the schema information when there are a massive number of tables (experimental)</a></td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>Enhance stability of caching the schema information when there are a massive number of tables (experimental)</td>
```

    <td>SaaS companies using TiDB as the system of record for their multi-tenant applications often need to store a substantial number of tables. In previous versions, handling table counts in the order of a million or more was feasible, but it had the potential to degrade the overall user experience. TiDB v8.0.0 improves the situation with the following enhancements:
  <ul>

>     <li>- Introduce a new <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/system-variables#tidb_schema_cache_size-new-in-v800">schema information caching system</a>, incorporating a lazy-loading Least Recently Used (LRU) cache for table metadata and more efficiently managing schema version changes.</li>
>     <li>- Implement a <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/system-variables#tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue-new-in-v800">priority queue</a> for <code>auto analyze</code>, making the process less rigid and enhancing stability across a wider array of tables.</li>

Author: ```suggestion
    <li>Introduce a new <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/system-variables#tidb_schema_cache_size-new-in-v800">schema information caching system</a>, incorporating a lazy-loading Least Recently Used (LRU) cache for table metadata and more efficiently managing schema version changes.</li>
    <li>Implement a <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/system-variables#tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue-new-in-v800">priority queue</a> for <code>auto analyze</code>, making the process less rigid and enhancing stability across a wider array of tables.</li>
```

  </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="1">DB Operations and Observability</td>
    <td>Support monitoring index usage statistics </td>
    <td>TiDB v8.0.0 introduces the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/information-schema-tidb-index-usage"><code>INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIDB_INDEX_USAGE</code></a> table and the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/sys-schema.md"><code>sys.schema_unused_index</code></a> view to provide usage statistics of indexes. This feature helps you assess the importance of all indexes and optimize the index design.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">Data Migration</td>

>     <td>TiCDC adds support for the Simple protocol </td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>TiCDC adds support for <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/ticdc-simple-protocol">the Simple protocol</a> </td>
```

>     <td>TiCDC introduces support for a new protocol, the Simple protocol. This protocol includes support for in-band schema tracking capabilities by embedding schema information in DDL and BOOTSTRAP events.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <td>TiCDC introduces a new protocol, the Simple protocol. This protocol provides in-band schema tracking capabilities by embedding table schema information in DDL and BOOTSTRAP events.</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>TiCDC adds support for the Debezium format protocol </td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>TiCDC adds support for <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/ticdc-debezium">the Debezium format protocol</a> </td>
```

>     <td>TiCDC introduces support for a new protocol, the Debezium protocol. TiCDC can now publish replication events to a Kafka sink using a protocol that generates Debezium style messages.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <td>TiCDC introduces a new protocol, the Debezium protocol. TiCDC can now publish data change events to a Kafka sink using a protocol that generates Debezium style messages.</td>
```

  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Feature details

### Scalability

- PD supports the microservice mode (experimental) [#5766](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5766) @[binshi-bing](https://github.com/binshi-bing) **tw@qiancai** <!--1553/1558-->

    Starting from v8.0.0, PD supports the microservice mode. This mode disaggregates the timestamp allocation and cluster scheduling functions of PD into separate microservices that can be deployed independently, thereby enhancing performance scalability for PD and addressing performance bottlenecks of PD in large-scale clusters.

    - `tso` microservice: provides monotonically increasing timestamp allocation for the entire cluster.
    - `scheduling` microservice: provides scheduling functions for the entire cluster, including but not limited to load balancing, hot spot handling, replica repair, and replica placement.

>     Each microservice is deployed as an independent process. If you configure more than one replica for a microservice, the microservice automatically implements a primary-secondary fault-tolerant mode to ensure high availability and reliability of the service.

Author: ```suggestion
  Each microservice is deployed as an independent process. If you configure more than one replica for a microservice, the microservice automatically implements a primary-secondary fault-tolerant mode to ensure high availability and reliability of the service.
```

    Currently, PD microservices can only be deployed using TiDB Operator and TiUP playground. It is recommended to consider this mode when PD becomes a significant performance bottleneck that cannot be resolved by scaling up.

    For more information, see [documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-in-kubernetes/dev/pd-microservices).

* Enhance the usability of the Titan engine [#16245](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16245) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996) **tw@qiancai** <!--1708-->

    - Enable the shared cache for Titan blob files and RocksDB block files by default ([`shared-blob-cache`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#shared-blob-cache-tidb-introduced-in-v800) defaults to `true`), eliminating the need to configure [`blob-cache-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#blob-cache-size) separately.
    - Support dynamically modifying [`min-blob-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#min-blob-size), [`blob-file-compression`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#blob-file-compression), and [`discardable-ratio`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#min-blob-size) to improve performance and flexibility when using the Titan engine.

>     For more information, see [documentation](/storage-engine/titan-configuration.md).

Author: ```suggestion
  For more information, see [documentation](/storage-engine/titan-configuration.md).
```

    TiDB v6.6.0 introduces [multi-value indexes](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#multi-valued-indexes) to improve query performance for JSON data types. In v8.0.0, the optimizer enhances its support for multi-valued indexes and can correctly identify and utilize them to optimize queries in complex scenarios.

    * The optimizer can collect statistics on multi-valued indexes and use this information for estimation. When a SQL statement might select from several multi-value indexes, the optimizer can identify the index with lower cost.
    * When using `OR` to connect multiple `member of` conditions, the optimizer can match an effective index partial path for each DNF item (a `member of` condition) and combine these paths using Union to form an `Index Merge`. This achieves more efficient condition filtering and data querying.

  For more information, see [documentation](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#multi-valued-indexes).
  

> * Supports configuring the update interval for low-precision TSO [#51081](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51081) @[Tema](https://github.com/Tema) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1725-->

Author: ```suggestion
* Support configuring the update interval for low-precision TSO [#51081](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51081) @[Tema](https://github.com/Tema) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1725-->
```

    
    For more information, see [documentation](/data-type-default-values.md#specify-expressions-as-default-values).

* Support the `div_precision_increment` system variable [#51501](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51501) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1566-->

    MySQL 8.0 supports the variable `div_precision_increment`, which specifies the number of digits by which to increase the scale of the result of a division operation performed using the `/` operator. Before v8.0.0, TiDB does not support this variable, and division is performed to 4 decimal places. Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB supports this variable. You can specify the number of digits by which to increase the scale of the result of a division operation as desired.
    
    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#div_precision_increment-new-in-v800).
   
### DB operations

* PITR supports Amazon S3 Object Lock [#51184](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51184) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR) **tw@lilin90** <!--1604-->

>     Amazon S3 Object Lock can help prevent backup data from being accidentally or intentionally deleted during a specified retention period, enhancing the security and integrity of data. Starting from v6.3.0, BR supports Amazon S3 Object Lock in snapshot backups, adding an additional layer of security for full backups. Starting from v8.0.0, PITR also supports Amazon S3 Object Lock. Whether full backups or log data backups, the Object Lock feature ensures a more reliable data protection, further strengthening the security of data backup and recovery and meeting regulatory requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Amazon S3 Object Lock can help prevent backup data from accidental or intentional deletion during a specified retention period, enhancing the security and integrity of data. Starting from v6.3.0, BR supports Amazon S3 Object Lock for snapshot backups, adding an additional layer of security for full backups. Starting from v8.0.0, PITR also supports Amazon S3 Object Lock. Whether for full backups or log data backups, the Object Lock feature ensures more reliable data protection, further strengthening the security of data backup and recovery and meeting regulatory requirements.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/encryption-at-rest.md##tikv-encryption-at-rest).

* Enhance TiDB log desensitization [#51306](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51306) @[xhebox](https://github.com/xhebox) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1229-->

    The enhancement of TiDB log desensitization is based on marking SQL text information in log files, facilitating the safe display of sensitive data when users view the logs. You can control whether to desensitize log information to enable secure use of TiDB logs in different scenarios, enhancing the security and flexibility of using log desensitization. To use this feature, set the system variable `tidb_redact_log` to `MARKER`. This marks the SQL text in TiDB logs. When you view the logs, sensitive data is securely displayed based on the markers, thus protecting the log information.

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_redact_log).

### Data migration

* TiCDC adds support for the Simple protocol [#9898](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9898) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand) **tw@lilin90** <!--1646-->

>     TiCDC introduces support for a new protocol, the Simple protocol. This protocol includes support for in-band schema tracking capabilities by embedding schema information in DDL and BOOTSTRAP events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    TiCDC introduces a new protocol, the Simple protocol. This protocol provides in-band schema tracking capabilities by embedding table schema information in DDL and BOOTSTRAP events.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-simple-protocol.md).

* TiCDC adds support for the Debezium format protocol [#1799](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/1799) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish) **tw@lilin90** <!--1652-->

>     TiCDC can now publish replication events to a Kafka sink using a protocol that generates event messages in a Debezium style format. This helps to simplify the migration from MySQL to TiDB for users who are currently using Debezium to pull data from MySQL for downstream processing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    TiCDC can now publish data change events to a Kafka sink using a protocol that generates event messages in a Debezium style format. This helps to simplify the migration from MySQL to TiDB for users who are currently using Debezium to pull data from MySQL for downstream processing.
```

    With the Global Sort experimental feature introduced in v7.4.0, TiDB can temporarily store the data to be imported in an external storage (such as Amazon S3) for global sorting before importing it into TiKV, which eliminates the need for TiKV compaction operations during import. In v8.0.0, Global sorting becomes GA. This feature reduces the resource consumption of TiKV and significantly improves the performance and stability of `IMPORT INTO`. If you enable the Global Sort, each `IMPORT INTO` task supports importing data within 40 TiB.

   For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-global-sort.md).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v7.6.0 to the current version (v8.0.0). If you are upgrading from v7.5.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

> - Prohibit setting [`require_secure_transport`](/system-variables.md#require_secure_transport-new-in-v610) to `ON` in Security Enhanced Mode (SEM) to prevent potential connectivity issues for users [#47665](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47665) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)

Author: ```suggestion
- Prohibit setting [`require_secure_transport`](/system-variables.md#require_secure_transport-new-in-v610) to `ON` in Security Enhanced Mode (SEM) to prevent potential connectivity issues for users. [#47665](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47665) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
```

- DM removes the fixed secret key for encryption and decryption and enables you to customize a secret key for encryption and decryption. If encrypted passwords are used in [data source configurations](/dm/dm-source-configuration-file.md) and [migration task configurations](/dm/task-configuration-file-full.md) before the upgrade, you need to refer to the upgrade steps in [Customize a Secret Key for DM Encryption and Decryption](/dm/dm-customized-secret-key.md) for additional operations. [#9492](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9492) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)

> 

Author: ```suggestion
- Remove witness-related schedulers that are not GA but are enabled by default [#7765](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/7765) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)

```

| [`tidb_enable_collect_execution_info`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_collect_execution_info) | Modified | Adds a control to whether to record the [usage statistics of indexes](/information-schema/information-schema-tidb-index-usage.md). The default value is `ON`. |
| [`tidb_redact_log`](/system-variables.md#tidb_redact_log) | Modified | Controls how to handle user information in SAL text when logging TiDB logs and slow logs. Values can be `OFF` and `ON`, to support log information in plain text, and masking log information, respectively. To provide a richer way of processing user information in the log, the `MARKER` option is added in v8.0.0 to support marking log information. |
| [`div_precision_increment`](/system-variables.md#div_precision_increment-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls the number of digits by which to increase the scale of the result of a division operation performed using the `/` operator. This variable is the same as MySQL. |
| [`tidb_dml_type`](/system-variables.md#tidb_dml_type-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls the execution mode of DML statements. The value options are `"standard"` and `"bulk"`. |

> | [`tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Control whether to enable the priority queue to schedule the tasks of automatically collecting statistics. When this variable is enabled, TiDB prioritizes collecting statistics for the tables that most need statistics. |

Author: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable the priority queue to schedule the tasks of automatically collecting statistics. When this variable is enabled, TiDB prioritizes collecting statistics for the tables that most need statistics. |
```

| TiDB | [`tls-version`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#tls-version) | Modified | This parameter no longer supports `"TLSv1.0"` and `"TLSv1.1"`. Now it only supports `"TLSv1.2"` and `"TLSv1.3"`. |
| TiDB  | [`log.file.compression`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#compression-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Specifies the compression format of the polling log. The default value is null, which means that the polling log is not compressed. |
| TiDB  | [`log.general-log-file`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#general-log-file-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Specifies the file to save the general log to. The default is null, which means that the general log will be written to the instance file. |
| TiDB | [`tikv-client.enable-replica-selector-v2`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#enable-replica-selector-v2-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls whether to use the new version of the Region replica selector when sending RPC requests to TiKV. The default value is `true`. |

> | TiKV | [`log-backup.initial-scan-rate-limit`](/system-variables.md#initial-scan-rate-limit-new-in-v620) | Modified | Add a limit of `1MiB` as the minimum value. |

Author: ```suggestion
| TiKV | [`log-backup.initial-scan-rate-limit`](/system-variables.md#initial-scan-rate-limit-new-in-v620) | Modified | Adds a limit of `1MiB` as the minimum value. |
```

> | TiKV | [`raftstore.store-io-pool-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#store-io-pool-size-new-in-v530) | Modified | Change the default value from `0` to `1` to improve TiKV performance, meaning that the size of the StoreWriter thread pool now defaults to `1`. |

Author: ```suggestion
| TiKV | [`raftstore.store-io-pool-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#store-io-pool-size-new-in-v530) | Modified | Changes the default value from `0` to `1` to improve TiKV performance, meaning that the size of the StoreWriter thread pool now defaults to `1`. |
```

| TiKV | [`rocksdb.defaultcf.titan.blob-cache-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#blob-cache-size) | Modified | Starting from v8.0.0, TiKV introduces the `shared-blob-cache` configuration item and enables it by default, so there is no need to set `blob-cache-size` separately. The configuration of `blob-cache-size` only takes effect when `shared-blob-cache` is set to `false`. |

> | TiKV | [`rocksdb.defaultcf.titan.shared-blob-cache`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#shared-blob-cache-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable the shared cache for Titan blob files and RocksDB block files. The default value is `true`. |
> | TiKV | [`security.encryption.master-key.vendor`](/encryption-at-rest.md#specify-a-master-key-via-kms) | Modified | Adds `gcp` as an available type for the service provider. |

Author: ```suggestion
| TiKV | [`security.encryption.master-key.vendor`](/encryption-at-rest.md#specify-a-master-key-via-kms) | Modified | Adds `gcp` as an available type for the service provider. |
| TiKV | [`rocksdb.defaultcf.titan.shared-blob-cache`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#shared-blob-cache-new-in-v800) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable the shared cache for Titan blob files and RocksDB block files. The default value is `true`. |
```

| TiDB Lightning  | [`logical-import-batch-rows`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) | Newly added | Controls the maximum number of rows inserted per transaction in Logical Import Mode. The default value is `65536` rows. |
| TiDB Lightning  | [`logical-import-batch-size`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) | Newly added | Controls the size of each SQL query executed on the downstream TiDB server in Logical Import Mode. The default value is `"96KiB"`. The unit can be KB, KiB, MB, or MiB. |
| Data Migration  |  [`secret-key-path`](/dm/dm-master-configuration-file.md) | Newly added | Specifies the file path of the secret key, which is used to encrypt and decrypt upstream and downstream passwords. The file must contain a 64-character hexadecimal AES-256 secret key. |

> | TiCDC | [`tls-key-file-path`](ticdc/ticdc-sink-to-pulsar.md) | Newly added | Specifies the path to the encrypted private key on the client, which is required when Pulsar enables TLS encrypted transmission. |
> | TiCDC | [`tls-certificate-file`](ticdc/ticdc-sink-to-pulsar.md) | Newly added | Specifies the path to the encrypted certificate file on the client, which is required when Pulsar enables TLS encrypted transmission. |

Author: ```suggestion
| TiCDC | [`tls-certificate-file`](ticdc/ticdc-sink-to-pulsar.md) | Newly added | Specifies the path to the encrypted certificate file on the client, which is required when Pulsar enables TLS encrypted transmission. |
| TiCDC | [`tls-key-file-path`](ticdc/ticdc-sink-to-pulsar.md) | Newly added | Specifies the path to the encrypted private key on the client, which is required when Pulsar enables TLS encrypted transmission. |
```

### System tables

* Add new system tables [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIDB_INDEX_USAGE`](/information-schema/information-schema-tidb-index-usage.md) and [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.CLUSTER_TIDB_INDEX_USAGE`](/information-schema/information-schema-tidb-index-usage.md#cluster_tidb_index_usage) to record index usage statistics on TiDB nodes. **tw@Oreoxmt**
* Add a new system schema [`sys`](/sys-schema.md) and a new view [`sys.schema_unused_index`](/sys-schema.md#schema_unused_index), which records indexes that have not been used since the last start of TiDB. **tw@Oreoxmt**

## Deprecated features

- Starting from v8.0.0, the [`tidb_disable_txn_auto_retry`](/system-variables.md#tidb_disable_txn_auto_retry) system variable is deprecated, and TiDB no longer supports automatic retries of optimistic transactions. As an alternative, when encountering optimistic transaction conflicts, you can capture the error and retry transactions in your application, or use the [Pessimistic transaction mode](/pessimistic-transaction.md) instead. **tw@lilin90** <!--1671-->
- Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB no longer supports the TLSv1.0 and TLSv1.1 protocols. You must upgrade TLS to TLSv1.2 or TLSv1.3.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
- It is planned to redesign [the auto-evolution of execution plan bindings](/sql-plan-management.md#baseline-evolution) in subsequent releases, and the related variables and behavior will change.

```

    - Support canceling queries during spilling data to disk, which optimizes the exit mechanism of the data spill feature [#50511](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50511) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12) **tw@qiancai** <!--1635-->
    - Support using an index that matches partial conditions to construct Index Join when processing table join queries with multiple equal conditions [#47233](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47233) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1601-->
    - Enhance the capability of Index Merge to identify sorting requirements in queries and select indexes that meet the sorting requirements [#48359](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48359) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - When the `Apply` operator is not executed concurrently, TiDB enables you to view the name of the operator that blocks the concurrency by executing `SHOW WARNINGS` [#50256](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50256) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

>     - Optimize the index selection for `point get` queries by selecting the most optimal index for queries when all indexes support `point get` queries @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Optimize the index selection for `point get` queries by selecting the most optimal index for queries when all indexes support `point get` queries [#50184](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50184) @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520)
```

    - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复使用 `SET_VAR` 控制字符串类型的变量可能会失效的问题 [#50507](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50507) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Fix the issue that the `SYSDATE()` function incorrectly uses the time in the plan cache when `tidb_sysdate_is_now` is set to `1` [#49299](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49299) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Fix the issue that when executing the `CREATE GLOBAL BINDING` statement, if the schema name is in uppercase, the binding does not take effect [#50646](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50646) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Fix the issue that `Index Path` selects duplicated indexes [#50496](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50496) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - Fix the issue that `PLAN REPLAYER` fails to load bindings when the `CREATE GLOBAL BINDING` statement contains `IN()` [#43192](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43192) @[King-Dylan](https://github.com/King-Dylan)

>     - Fix the issue that when multiple `analyze` tasks fail, the failure reason is not recorded correctly [#50481](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50481) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that when multiple `analyze` tasks fail, the failure reasons are not recorded correctly [#50481](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50481) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
```

    - Fix the issue that `tidb_stats_load_sync_wait` does not take effect [#50872](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50872) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)
    - Fix the issue that `max_execute_time` settings at multiple levels interfere with each other [#50914](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50914) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)
    - Fix the issue of thread safety caused by concurrent updating of statistics [#50835](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50835) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
    - Fix the issue that executing `auto analyze` on a partition table might cause TiDB to panic [#51187](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51187) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

>     - Fix the issue that SQL bindings might not work when `IN()` in a SQL statement contains different number of values [#51222](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51222) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that SQL bindings might not work when `IN()` in a SQL statement contains a different number of values [#51222](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51222) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
```

---
title: TiDB 8.0.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 8.0.0.
---

# TiDB 8.0.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2024

TiDB version: 8.0.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v8.0.0#version-list)

8.0.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature/Enhancement</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="4">Scalability and Performance</td>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/pd-microservices">Disaggregation of PD to improve scalability (experimental)</a> </td>

>     <td>Placement Driver (PD) contains multiple critical modules to ensure the normal operation of TiDB clusters. As the workload of a cluster increases, the resource consumption of each module in PD also increases, causing mutual interference between these modules and ultimately affecting the overall service quality of the cluster. To address this issue, starting from v8.0.0, TiDB supports disaggregating the TSO and scheduling modules of PD into independently deployable microservices, which can significantly reduce the mutual interference between modules as the cluster scales. With this architecture, much larger clusters with much larger workloads are now possible for TiDB.</td>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    <td>Placement Driver (PD) contains multiple critical modules to ensure the normal operation of TiDB clusters. As the workload of a cluster increases, the resource consumption of each module in PD also increases, causing mutual interference between these modules and ultimately affecting the overall service quality of the cluster. Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB addresses this issue with disaggregation of the TSO and scheduling modules in PD into independently deployable microservices. This can significantly reduce the mutual interference between modules as the cluster scales. With this architecture, much larger clusters with much larger workloads are now possible.</td>
```

Reviewer 5: @qiancai PTAL

Reviewer: LGTM

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/system-variables#tidb_dml_type-new-in-v800">Bulk DML for much larger transactions (experimental)</a></td>
    <td>Large batch DML jobs, such as extensive cleanup jobs, joins, or aggregations, can consume a significant amount of memory and have previously been limited at very large scales. Bulk DML (<code>tidb_dml_type = "bulk"</code>) is a new DML type for handling large batch DML tasks more efficiently while providing transaction guarantees and mitigating OOM issues. This feature differs from import, load, and restore operations when used for data loading.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/br-snapshot-guide#restore-cluster-snapshots">Acceleration of cluster snapshot restore speed (GA) </a></td>

>     <td>With this feature, BR can fully leverage the scale advantage of a cluster, enabling all TiKV nodes in the cluster to participate in the preparation step of data restores. This feature can significantly improve the restore speed of large datasets in large-scale clusters. Real-world tests show that this feature can saturate the download bandwidth, with the download speed improving by 8 to 10 times, and the end-to-end restore speed improving by approximately 1.5 to 3 times.</td>

Reviewer: @samhld PTAL. Thanks.

    For more information, see [documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-in-kubernetes/dev/pd-microservices).

* Enhance the usability of the Titan engine [#16245](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16245) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996) **tw@qiancai** <!--1708-->

    - Enable the shared cache for Titan blob files and RocksDB block files by default ([`shared-blob-cache`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#shared-blob-cache-tidb-introduced-in-v800) defaults to `true`), eliminating the need to configure [`blob-cache-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#blob-cache-size) separately.
    - Support dynamically modifying [`min-blob-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#min-blob-size), [`blob-file-compression`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#blob-file-compression), and [`discardable-ratio`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#min-blob-size) to improve performance and flexibility when using the Titan engine.

  For more information, see [documentation](/storage-engine/titan-configuration.md).

### Performance

> * BR improves snapshot restore speed by up to 10 times (GA) [#50701](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50701) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth) **tw@qiancai** <!--1681-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* BR improves snapshot restore speed (GA) [#50701](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50701) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth) **tw@qiancai** <!--1681-->
```

>   Starting from TiDB v8.0.0, the acceleration of snapshot restore speed has been generally available (GA) and enabled by default. BR improves snapshot restore speed by up to approximately 10 times while ensuring that data is sufficiently distributed, by implementing various optimizations such as adopting the coarse-grained region scattering algorithm, creating databases and tables in batches, reducing the mutual impact between SST file downloads and ingest operations, and accelerating the restore of table statistics. This feature fully utilizes all resources of each TiKV node, achieving parallel and rapid restore. According to test results from real-world cases, the data restore speed of a single TiKV node remains stable at 1.2 GB/s, enabling the restore of 100 TB of data within 1 hour.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Starting from TiDB v8.0.0, the acceleration of snapshot restore speed has been generally available (GA) and enabled by default. BR improves the end-to-end snapshot restore speed by several times while ensuring that data is sufficiently distributed, by implementing various optimizations such as adopting the coarse-grained region scattering algorithm, creating databases and tables in batches, reducing the mutual impact between SST file downloads and ingest operations, and accelerating the restore of table statistics. According to internal simulated tests, the maximum improvement is about 3 times. This feature fully utilizes all resources of each TiKV node, achieving parallel and rapid restore. According to test results from real-world cases, the data download speed of a single TiKV node can stably saturate the network bandwidth at 1.2 GB/s, enabling the recovery of 100 TiB of data within 1 hour. If bandwidth and machine scale are further improved, the recovery speed can be even faster.
```

>   This means that even in high-load environments, BR can fully utilize the resources of each TiKV node, significantly reducing database restore time, enhancing the availability and reliability of databases, and reducing downtime and business losses caused by data loss or system failures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This means that even in high-load environments, BR can fully utilize the resources of each TiKV node, significantly reducing database restore time, enhancing the availability and reliability of databases, and reducing downtime and business losses caused by data loss or system failures. Note that the speed improvement in recovery is because of the use of a large number of goroutines to work in parallel, which can result in significant memory consumption, especially when there are many tables or Regions. It is recommended to use machines with higher memory specifications to run the BR client. If the machine has a smaller memory specification, It is recommended to use a finer-grained region splitting and sharding strategy.
```

    - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > Bug fixes> PD - Fix the issue that the PD monitoring item `learner-peer-count` does not synchronize the old value after a leader switch [#7728](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7728) @[CabinfeverB](https://github.com/CabinfeverB)
    - (dup): release-7.1.4.md > Bug fixes> PD - Fix the memory leak issue that occurs when `watch etcd` is not turned off correctly [#7807](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7807) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - (dup): release-7.1.4.md > Bug fixes> PD - Fix the issue that some TSO logs do not print the error cause [#7496](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7496) @[CabinfeverB](https://github.com/CabinfeverB)
    - Fix the issue that there are unexpected negative monitoring metrics after restart [#4489](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4489) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
    - Fix the issue that the Leader lease expires later than the log time [#7700](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7700) @[CabinfeverB](https://github.com/CabinfeverB)

>     - 修复 PD 客户端 TLS 相关的问题 [#7900](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7900) [#7902](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7902) [#7916](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7916) @[CabinfeverB](https://github.com/CabinfeverB)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the TiDB panic issue in special scenarios where TLS switches between TiDB (the PD client) and PD are inconsistent [#7900](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7900) [#7902](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7902) [#7916](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7916) @[CabinfeverB](https://github.com/CabinfeverB)
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">Data Migration</td>
    <td>TiCDC adds support for <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/ticdc-simple-protocol">the Simple protocol</a> </td>
    <td>TiCDC introduces a new protocol, the Simple protocol. This protocol provides in-band schema tracking capabilities by embedding table schema information in DDL and BOOTSTRAP events.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>TiCDC adds support for <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/ticdc-debezium">the Debezium format protocol</a> </td>
    <td>TiCDC introduces a new protocol, the Debezium protocol. TiCDC can now publish data change events to a Kafka sink using a protocol that generates Debezium style messages.</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Feature details

### Scalability

- PD supports the microservice mode (experimental) [#5766](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5766) @[binshi-bing](https://github.com/binshi-bing) **tw@qiancai** <!--1553/1558-->

>     Starting from v8.0.0, PD supports the microservice mode. This mode disaggregates the timestamp allocation and cluster scheduling functions of PD into separate microservices that can be deployed independently, thereby enhancing performance scalability for PD and addressing performance bottlenecks of PD in large-scale clusters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Starting from v8.0.0, PD supports the microservice mode. This mode splits the timestamp allocation and cluster scheduling functions of PD into separate microservices that can be deployed independently, thereby enhancing performance scalability for PD and addressing performance bottlenecks of PD in large-scale clusters.
```

    - `tso` microservice: provides monotonically increasing timestamp allocation for the entire cluster.
    - `scheduling` microservice: provides scheduling functions for the entire cluster, including but not limited to load balancing, hot spot handling, replica repair, and replica placement.

  Each microservice is deployed as an independent process. If you configure more than one replica for a microservice, the microservice automatically implements a primary-secondary fault-tolerant mode to ensure high availability and reliability of the service.

    Currently, PD microservices can only be deployed using TiDB Operator and TiUP playground. It is recommended to consider this mode when PD becomes a significant performance bottleneck that cannot be resolved by scaling up.

>     For more information, see [documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-in-kubernetes/dev/pd-microservices).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [documentation](/pd-microservices.md).
```

* Enhance the usability of the Titan engine [#16245](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16245) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996) **tw@qiancai** <!--1708-->

    - Enable the shared cache for Titan blob files and RocksDB block files by default ([`shared-blob-cache`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#shared-blob-cache-tidb-introduced-in-v800) defaults to `true`), eliminating the need to configure [`blob-cache-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#blob-cache-size) separately.
    - Support dynamically modifying [`min-blob-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#min-blob-size), [`blob-file-compression`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#blob-file-compression), and [`discardable-ratio`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#min-blob-size) to improve performance and flexibility when using the Titan engine.

  For more information, see [documentation](/storage-engine/titan-configuration.md).

### Performance

* BR improves snapshot restore speed (GA) [#50701](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50701) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth) **tw@qiancai** <!--1681-->

>   Starting from TiDB v8.0.0, BR improves the snapshot restore speed significantly by implementing various optimizations such as adopting the coarse-grained Region scattering algorithm, creating databases and tables in batches, reducing the mutual impact between SST file downloads and ingest operations, and accelerating the restore of table statistics. According to test results from real-world cases, the data restore speed of a single TiKV node stabilizes at 1.2 GB/s, and 100 TiB of data can be restored within one hour. In TiDB v8.0.0, this improvement feature is now generally available (GA) and enabled by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Starting from TiDB v8.0.0, the acceleration of snapshot restore speed is now generally available (GA) and enabled by default. BR improves the snapshot restore speed significantly by implementing various optimizations such as adopting the coarse-grained Region scattering algorithm, creating databases and tables in batches, reducing the mutual impact between SST file downloads and ingest operations, and accelerating the restore of table statistics. According to test results from real-world cases, the data restore speed of a single TiKV node stabilizes at 1.2 GB/s, and 100 TiB of data can be restored within one hour.
```

>   This means that even in high-load environments, BR can fully utilize the resources of each TiKV node, significantly reducing database restore time, enhancing the availability and reliability of databases, and reducing downtime and business losses caused by data loss or system failures. Note that the increase in restore speed is attributed to the parallel execution of a large number of goroutines, which can result in significant memory consumption, especially when there are many tables or Regions. It is recommended to use machines with higher memory capacity to run the BR client. If the memory capacity of the machine is limited, it is recommended to use a finer-grained Region scattering algorithm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This means that even in high-load environments, BR can fully utilize the resources of each TiKV node, significantly reducing database restore time, enhancing the availability and reliability of databases, and reducing downtime and business losses caused by data loss or system failures. Note that the increase in restore speed is attributed to the parallel execution of a large number of goroutines, which can result in significant memory consumption, especially when there are many tables or Regions. It is recommended to use machines with higher memory capacity to run the BR client. If the memory capacity of the machine is limited, it is recommended to use a finer-grained Region scattering algorithm. In addition, because the coarse-grained Region scattering algorithm might consume a significant amount of external storage bandwidth, you need to avoid any impact on other business operations due to insufficient external bandwidth.
```

    - Reduce the impact of the etcd leader on the PD leader [#7499](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7499) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
    - Enhance the detection mechanism for unhealthy etcd nodes [#7730](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7730) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
    - Optimize the output of GC safepoint in pd-ctl [#7767](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7767) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
    - Support dynamic modification of the historical window configuration in the hotspot scheduler [#7877](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7877) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
    - Reduce the lock contention issue in creating operators [#7837](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7837) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
    - Adjust GRPC configurations to improve availability [#7821](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7821) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR) <!--tw@qiancai, 5 条-->

>         - Support controlling whether to restore statistics using the newly added restore parameter `--load-stats` [#50568](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50568) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Support controlling whether to restore statistics using the newly added restore parameter `--load-stats` [#50568](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50568) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Supports controlling the maximum number of download and ingest files for each TiKV node through the newly added recovery parameter `--tikv-max-restore-concurrency`. This parameter also controls the memory consumption of BR nodes by controlling the maximum length of the job queue. [#51621](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51621) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)

```

    <td>SaaS companies using TiDB as the system of record for their multi-tenant applications often need to store a substantial number of tables. In previous versions, handling table counts in the order of a million or more was feasible, but it had the potential to degrade the overall user experience. TiDB v8.0.0 improves the situation with the following enhancements:
  <ul>
    <li>Introduce a new <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/system-variables#tidb_schema_cache_size-new-in-v800">schema information caching system</a>, incorporating a lazy-loading Least Recently Used (LRU) cache for table metadata and more efficiently managing schema version changes.</li>
    <li>Implement a <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/system-variables#tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue-new-in-v800">priority queue</a> for <code>auto analyze</code>, making the process less rigid and enhancing stability across a wider array of tables.</li>
  </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="1">DB Operations and Observability</td>
    <td>Support monitoring index usage statistics </td>

>     <td>TiDB v8.0.0 introduces the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/information-schema-tidb-index-usage"><code>INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIDB_INDEX_USAGE</code></a> table and the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/sys-schema"><code>sys.schema_unused_index</code></a> view to provide usage statistics of indexes. This feature helps you assess the importance of all indexes and optimize the index design.</td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <td>Proper index design is a crucial prerequisite for improving database performance. TiDB v8.0.0 introduces the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/information-schema-tidb-index-usage"><code>INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIDB_INDEX_USAGE</code></a> table and the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/sys-schema"><code>sys.schema_unused_index</code></a> view to provide usage statistics of indexes. This feature helps you assess the efficiency of indexes in the database and optimize the index design.</td>
```

    In earlier versions of TiDB, the concurrency algorithm of the HashAgg operator does not support disk spill. If the execution plan of a SQL statement contains the concurrent HashAgg operator, all the data for that SQL statement can only be processed in memory. Consequently, TiDB has to process a large amount of data in memory. When the data size exceeds the memory limit, TiDB can only choose the non-concurrent algorithm, which does not leverage concurrency for performance improvement.

     In v8.0.0, the concurrent HashAgg algorithm of TiDB supports disk spill. Under any concurrent conditions, the HashAgg operator can automatically trigger data spill based on memory usage, thus balancing performance and data throughput. Currently, as an experimental feature, TiDB introduces the `tidb_enable_concurrent_hashagg_spill` variable to control whether to enable the concurrent HashAgg algorithm that supports disk spill. When this variable is `ON`, it means enabled. This variable will be deprecated when the feature is generally available in a future release.

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_concurrent_hashagg_spill-new-in-v800).

> * Introduce the priority queue for automatic statistics update [#50132](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50132) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Introduce the priority queue for automatic statistics collection [#50132](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50132) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
```

>     Maintaining optimizer statistics up-to-date is the key to stabilizing database performance. Most users rely on the [automatic statistics update](/statistics.md#automatic-update) provided by TiDB to keep statistics up-to-date. Automatic statistics update polls the status of statistics for all objects, and adds objects with insufficient health to a queue for individual collection and update. In previous versions, the collection order is random, which could result in longer waits for more worthy objects to be updated, causing potential database performance regressions.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    Maintaining optimizer statistics up-to-date is the key to stabilizing database performance. Most users rely on the [automatic statistics collection](/statistics.md#automatic-update) provided by TiDB to collect the latest statistics. Automatic statistics collection checks the status of statistics for all objects, and adds unhealthy objects to a queue for sequential collections. In previous versions, the order is random, which could result in excessive waits for more worthy candidates to be updated, causing potential performance regressions.
```

>     Starting from v8.0.0, automatic statistics update dynamically sets priorities for objects in combination with a variety of conditions to ensure that more valuable objects for collection are processed first, such as newly created indexes and partitioned tables with partition changes. Additionally, TiDB prioritizes tables with lower health scores, placing them at the front of the queue. This enhancement improves the reasonableness of the collection order, and reduces performance problems caused by outdated statistics, therefore improving database stability.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    Starting from v8.0.0, automatic statistics collection dynamically sets priorities for objects in combination with a variety of conditions to ensure that more deserving candidates are processed in priority, such as newly created indexes and partitioned tables with definition changes. Additionally, TiDB prioritizes tables with lower health scores, placing them at the top of the queue. This enhancement makes the order of collection more reasonable, and reduces performance problems caused by outdated statistics, therefore improving database stability.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue-new-in-v800).

* Remove some limitations on execution plan cache [#49161](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/49161) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)

>     TiDB supports [execution plan cache](/sql-prepared-plan-cache.md), which can effectively reduce the processing latency of transaction-intensive systems and is important for improving performance. In v8.0.0, TiDB removes several limitations on execution plan cache. Execution plans with the following contents can be cached:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    TiDB supports [plan cache](/sql-prepared-plan-cache.md), which can effectively reduce the latency of OLTP systems and is important for performance. In v8.0.0, TiDB removes several limitations from plan cache. Execution plans with the following items can be cached now:
```

    - [Partitioned tables](/partitioned-table.md)
    - [Generated columns](/generated-columns.md), including objects that depend on generated columns (such as [multi-valued indexes](/choose-index.md#multi-valued-indexes-and-plan-cache))

>   This enhancement extends the usage scenarios of execution plan cache and improves the overall database performance in complex scenarios.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  This enhancement extends the use cases of plan cache and improves the overall database performance in complex scenarios.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/sql-prepared-plan-cache.md).

* Optimizer enhances support for multi-valued indexes [#47759](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47759) [#46539](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46539) @[Arenatlx](https://github.com/Arenatlx) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)

    TiDB v6.6.0 introduces [multi-value indexes](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#multi-valued-indexes) to improve query performance for JSON data types. In v8.0.0, the optimizer enhances its support for multi-valued indexes and can correctly identify and utilize them to optimize queries in complex scenarios.

>     * The optimizer can collect statistics on multi-valued indexes and use this information for estimation. When a SQL statement might select from several multi-value indexes, the optimizer can identify the index with lower cost.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    * The optimizer collects statistics on multi-valued indexes and decide execution plans with the statistics. If several multi-value indexes can selected by a SQL statement, the optimizer can identify the one with lower cost.
```

>     * When using `OR` to connect multiple `member of` conditions, the optimizer can match an effective index partial path for each DNF item (a `member of` condition) and combine these paths using Union to form an `Index Merge`. This achieves more efficient condition filtering and data querying.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    * When using `OR` to connect multiple `member of` conditions, the optimizer can match an effective index partial path for each DNF item (a `member of` condition) and combine these paths using Union to form an `Index Merge`. This achieves more efficient condition filtering and data fetch.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#div_precision_increment-new-in-v800).

### DB operations

* PITR supports Amazon S3 Object Lock [#51184](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51184) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)

    Amazon S3 Object Lock can help prevent backup data from accidental or intentional deletion during a specified retention period, enhancing the security and integrity of data. Starting from v6.3.0, BR supports Amazon S3 Object Lock for snapshot backups, adding an additional layer of security for full backups. Starting from v8.0.0, PITR also supports Amazon S3 Object Lock. Whether for full backups or log data backups, the Object Lock feature ensures more reliable data protection, further strengthening the security of data backup and recovery and meeting regulatory requirements.

    For more information, see [documentation](/br/backup-and-restore-storages.md#other-features-supported-by-the-storage-service).

* Support making invisible indexes visible at the session level [#50653](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50653) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

>     By default, the optimizer does not select [invisible indexes](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#invisible-index) to optimize query execution. This mechanism is usually used to evaluate whether to delete an index. If there is uncertainty about the potential performance impact of deleting an index, you have the option to set the index to invisible temporarily and promptly restore it to visible when needed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    By default, the optimizer does not select [invisible indexes](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#invisible-index). This mechanism is usually used to evaluate whether to delete an index. If there is uncertainty about the potential performance impact of deleting an index, you have the option to set the index to invisible temporarily and promptly restore it to visible when needed.
```

>     Starting from v8.0.0, you can set the session-level system variable [`tidb_opt_use_invisible_indexes`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_use_invisible_indexes-new-in-v800) to `ON` to make the current session recognize and use invisible indexes. With this feature, you can create a new index and test its performance by setting the index to invisible first, and then modifying the system variable in the current session for testing without affecting other sessions. This improvement enhances the safety of performance tuning and helps to improve the stability of production databases.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    Starting from v8.0.0, you can set the session-level system variable [`tidb_opt_use_invisible_indexes`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_use_invisible_indexes-new-in-v800) to `ON` to make the current session aware of the presence of invisible indexes. With this feature, you can create a new index and test its performance by making the index visible firstly, and then modifying the system variable in the current session for testing without affecting other sessions. This improvement enhances the safety of sql tuning and helps to improve the stability of production databases.
```

    Starting from v8.0.0, you can enable writing the general log to a specified file by setting the configuration item [`log.general-log-file`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#general-log-file-new-in-v800) to a valid filename. The general log follows the same rotation and retention policies as the instance log.

    In addition, to reduce the disk space occupied by historical log files, TiDB v8.0.0 introduces a native log compression option. You can set the configuration item [`log.file.compression`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#compression-new-in-v800) to `gzip` to automatically compress rotated logs using the [`gzip`](https://www.gzip.org/) format.

    For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-configuration-file.md#general-log-file-new-in-v800).

### Observability

* Support monitoring index usage statistics [#49830](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49830) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

>     Proper index design is a crucial prerequisite for improving database performance. TiDB v8.0.0 introduces the [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIDB_INDEX_USAGE`](/information-schema/information-schema-tidb-index-usage.md) table, which records usage statistics of all indexes on the current TiDB node, including the following information:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    Proper index design is a crucial prerequisite to maintain database performance. TiDB v8.0.0 introduces the [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIDB_INDEX_USAGE`](/information-schema/information-schema-tidb-index-usage.md) table, which records the statistics of all indexes on the current TiDB node, including the following information:
```

    * The cumulative execution count of statements that scan the index
    * The total number of rows scanned when accessing the index
    * The selectivity distribution when scanning the index
    * The time of the most recent access to the index

  With this information, you can identify indexes that are not used by the optimizer and indexes with poor filtering effects, thereby optimizing index design to improve database performance.

>     Additionally, TiDB v8.0.0 introduces a view [`sys.schema_unused_index`](/sys-schema.md), which is compatible with MySQL. This view records indexes that have not been used since the last start of TiDB. For clusters upgraded from versions earlier than v8.0.0, the `sys` schema and the views in it are not created automatically. You can manually create them by referring to [`sys`](/sys-schema.md).

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    Additionally, TiDB v8.0.0 introduces a view [`sys.schema_unused_index`](/sys-schema.md), which is compatible with MySQL. This view shows indexes that have not been used since the last start of TiDB instances. For clusters upgraded from versions earlier than v8.0.0, the `sys` schema and the views are not created automatically. You can manually create them by referring to [`sys`](/sys-schema.md).
```

    - Temporarily adjust the priority of statistics synchronously loading tasks to high to avoid widespread timeouts during TiKV high loads, as these timeouts might result in statistics not being loaded [#50332](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50332) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
    - When the `PREPARE` statement fails to hit the execution plan cache, TiDB enables you to view the reason by executing `SHOW WARNINGS` [#50407](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50407) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Improve the accuracy of query estimation information when the same row of data is updated multiple times [#47523](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47523) @[terry1purcell](https://github.com/terry1purcell)
    - Index Merge supports embedding multi-value indexes and `OR` operators in `AND` predicates [#51778](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51778) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)

>     - (dup): release-7.1.4.md > Improvements> TiDB - When `force-init-stats` is set to `true`, TiDB waits for statistics initialization to finish before providing services during TiDB startup. This setting no longer blocks the startup of HTTP servers, which enables users to continue monitoring [#50854](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50854) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

Author: ```suggestion
    - When `force-init-stats` is set to `true`, TiDB waits for statistics initialization to finish before providing services during TiDB startup. This setting no longer blocks the startup of HTTP servers, which enables users to continue monitoring [#50854](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50854) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - MemoryTracker can track the memory usage of the `IndexLookup` operator. [#45901](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45901) @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)
    - MemoryTracker can track the memory usage of the `MemTableReaderExec` operator [#51456](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51456) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - Support running cancel-aware on the queries that are being spilled [#50511](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50511) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - Supports loading Regions in batch from PD to speed up the conversion process from KV Range to Regions when querying large tables [#51326](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51326) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)
```

Reviewer 7: LGTM

    - Add more monitoring metrics for heartbeat to better analyze performance bottlenecks [#7868](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7868) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
    - Reduce the impact of the etcd leader on the PD leader [#7499](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7499) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
    - Enhance the detection mechanism for unhealthy etcd nodes [#7730](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7730) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
    - Optimize the output of GC safepoint in pd-ctl [#7767](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7767) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
    - Support dynamic modification of the historical window configuration in the hotspot scheduler [#7877](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7877) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
    - Reduce the lock contention issue in creating operators [#7837](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7837) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
    - Adjust GRPC configurations to improve availability [#7821](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7821) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)

> 

Author: ```suggestion

+ TiFlash

    - Support using non-constant values for the `json_path` argument in the `JSON_EXTRACT()` function [#8510](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8510) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)
    - Support two arguments for the `JSON_LENGTH(json, path)` function [#8711](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8711) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)

```

Reviewer 7: LGTM

        - Enhance restore performance by enabling the coarse-grained Region scatter algorithm to adaptively obtain concurrent parameters [#50701](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50701) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - Display the `log` command in the command-line help information of `br` [#50927](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50927) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)
        - Support pre-allocating Table ID during the restore process to maximize the reuse of Table ID and improve restore performance [#51736](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51736) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Disable the GC memory limit tuner feature within TiDB when using BR to avoid OOM issues [#51078](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51078) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

>         - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > Improvements> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Improve the speed of merging SST files during data restore by using a more efficient algorithm [#50613](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50613) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
>         - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > Improvements> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Support creating databases in batch during data restore [#50767](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50767) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
>         - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > Improvements> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Print the information of the slowest Region that affects global checkpoint advancement in logs and metrics during log backups [#51046](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51046) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
>         - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > Improvements> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Improve the table creation performance of the `RESTORE` statement in scenarios with large datasets [#48301](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48301) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Improve the speed of merging SST files during data restore by using a more efficient algorithm [#50613](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50613) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Support creating databases in batch during data restore [#50767](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50767) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Print the information of the slowest Region that affects global checkpoint advancement in logs and metrics during log backups [#51046](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51046) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - Improve the table creation performance of the `RESTORE` statement in scenarios with large datasets [#48301](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48301) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
```

    - Fix the issue that the `tidb_gogc_tuner_threshold` system variable is not adjusted accordingly after the `tidb_server_memory_limit` variable is modified [#48180](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48180) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Fix the issue that the `index out of range` error might occur when a query involves JOIN operations [#42588](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42588) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - Fix the issue that getting the default value of a column returns an error if the column default value is dropped [#50043](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50043) [#51324](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51324) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)
    - Fix the issue that wrong results might be returned when TiFlash late materialization processes associated columns [#49241](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49241) [#51204](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51204) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)

> 

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the `LIKE()` function might return wrong results when processing binary collation inputs [#50393](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50393) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB might crash due to concurrent writes during parallel `Apply` [#50347](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50347) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)
    - Fix the issue that the `JSON_LENGTH()` function returns wrong results when the second parameter is `NULL` [#50931](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50931) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)
    - Fix the issue that queries containing `CTE` might cause Goroutine leaks when memory exceeds the limit [#50337](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50337) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
    - 修复 `CAST(as datetime)` 在特定情况下可能会丢失时间精度的问题 [#49555](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49555) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)
    - 修复并行 Apply 在表为聚簇索引可能导致结果错误的问题 [#51372](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51372) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
    - 修复主键类型是 `VARCHAR` 时，执行 `ALTER TABLE ... COMPACT TIFLASH REPLICA` 可能会错误地提前结束的问题 [#51810](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51810) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish)

```

Reviewer 7: LGTM

    - Fix the issue that TiFlash replica data might be accidentally deleted after performing point-in-time recovery (PITR) or executing `FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO`, which might result in data anomalies [#8777](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8777) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash panics after executing `ALTER TABLE ... MODIFY COLUMN ... NOT NULL`, which changes nullable columns to non-nullable [#8419](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8419) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - Fix the issue that in the disaggregated storage and compute architecture, queries might be permanently blocked after network isolation [#8806](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8806) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)
    - Fix the issue that in the disaggregated storage and compute architecture, TiFlash might panic during shutdown [#8837](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8837) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)

> 

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash might crash due to data race in case of remote reads [#8685](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8685) @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)
    - Fix the issue that the `CAST(AS JSON)` function does not de-duplicate the JSON object key [#8712](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8712) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)
    - Fix the issue that the `ENUM` column might cause TiFlash to crash during chunk encoding [#8674](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8674) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)

```

Reviewer 7: LGTM

    <td>Large batch DML jobs, such as extensive cleanup jobs, joins, or aggregations, can consume a significant amount of memory and have previously been limited at very large scales. Bulk DML (<code>tidb_dml_type = "bulk"</code>) is a new DML type for handling large batch DML tasks more efficiently while providing transaction guarantees and mitigating OOM issues. This feature differs from import, load, and restore operations when used for data loading.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/br-snapshot-guide#restore-cluster-snapshots">Acceleration of cluster snapshot restore speed (GA) </a></td>
    <td>With this feature, BR can fully leverage the scale advantage of a cluster, enabling all TiKV nodes in the cluster to participate in the preparation step of data restores. This feature can significantly improve the restore speed of large datasets in large-scale clusters. Real-world tests show that this feature can saturate the download bandwidth, with the download speed improving by 8 to 10 times, and the end-to-end restore speed improving by approximately 1.5 to 3 times.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>Enhance stability of caching the schema information when there are a massive number of tables (experimental)</td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <td>Enhance the stability of caching the schema information when there is a massive number of tables (experimental)</td>
```

* Support pushing down the following functions to TiFlash [#50975](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50975) [#50485](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50485) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1662--><!--1664-->

    * `CAST(DECIMAL AS DOUBLE)`
    * `POWER()`

  For more information, see [documentation](/tiflash/tiflash-supported-pushdown-calculations.md).

* The concurrent HashAgg algorithm of TiDB supports disk spill (experimental) [#35637](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35637) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008) **tw@qiancai** <!--1365-->

    In earlier versions of TiDB, the concurrency algorithm of the HashAgg operator does not support disk spill. If the execution plan of a SQL statement contains the concurrent HashAgg operator, all the data for that SQL statement can only be processed in memory. Consequently, TiDB has to process a large amount of data in memory. When the data size exceeds the memory limit, TiDB can only choose the non-concurrent algorithm, which does not leverage concurrency for performance improvement.

>      In v8.0.0, the concurrent HashAgg algorithm of TiDB supports disk spill. Under any concurrent conditions, the HashAgg operator can automatically trigger data spill based on memory usage, thus balancing performance and data throughput. Currently, as an experimental feature, TiDB introduces the `tidb_enable_concurrent_hashagg_spill` variable to control whether to enable the concurrent HashAgg algorithm that supports disk spill. When this variable is `ON`, it means enabled. This variable will be deprecated when the feature is generally available in a future release.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
     In v8.0.0, the concurrent HashAgg algorithm of TiDB supports disk spill. Under any concurrent conditions, the HashAgg operator can automatically trigger data spill based on memory usage, thus balancing performance and data throughput. Currently, as an experimental feature, TiDB introduces the `tidb_enable_concurrent_hashagg_spill` variable to control whether to enable the concurrent HashAgg algorithm that supports disk spill. When this variable is `ON`, it means enabled. This variable will be deprecated after the feature is generally available in a future release.
```

### System tables

* Add new system tables [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIDB_INDEX_USAGE`](/information-schema/information-schema-tidb-index-usage.md) and [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.CLUSTER_TIDB_INDEX_USAGE`](/information-schema/information-schema-tidb-index-usage.md#cluster_tidb_index_usage) to record index usage statistics on TiDB nodes.
* Add a new system schema [`sys`](/sys-schema.md) and a new view [`sys.schema_unused_index`](/sys-schema.md#schema_unused_index), which records indexes that have not been used since the last start of TiDB.

## Deprecated features

- Starting from v8.0.0, the [`tidb_disable_txn_auto_retry`](/system-variables.md#tidb_disable_txn_auto_retry) system variable is deprecated, and TiDB no longer supports automatic retries of optimistic transactions. As an alternative, when encountering optimistic transaction conflicts, you can capture the error and retry transactions in your application, or use the [Pessimistic transaction mode](/pessimistic-transaction.md) instead.

> - Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB no longer supports the TLSv1.0 and TLSv1.1 protocols. You must upgrade TLS to TLSv1.2 or TLSv1.3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB no longer supports the TLSv1.0 and TLSv1.1 protocols. You must upgrade TLS to TLSv1.2 or TLSv1.3.
- Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB Lightning deprecates the [old version of conflict detection](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-physical-import-mode-usage.md#the-old-version-of-conflict-detection-deprecated-in-v800) strategy for the physical import mode, enables you to control the conflict detection strategy for both logical and physical import modes via the [`conflict.strategy`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) parameter. The [`duplicate-resolution`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) parameter for the old version of conflict detection will be removed in v8.5.0.
```

    - Fix the issue that getting the default value of a column returns an error if the column default value is dropped [#50043](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50043) [#51324](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51324) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)
    - Fix the issue that wrong results might be returned when TiFlash late materialization processes associated columns [#49241](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49241) [#51204](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51204) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
    - Fix the issue that the `LIKE()` function might return wrong results when processing binary collation inputs [#50393](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50393) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB might crash due to concurrent writes during parallel `Apply` [#50347](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50347) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)
    - Fix the issue that the `JSON_LENGTH()` function returns wrong results when the second parameter is `NULL` [#50931](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50931) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)

>     - Fix the issue that queries containing `CTE` might cause Goroutine leaks when memory exceeds the limit [#50337](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50337) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that queries containing `CTE` might cause goroutine leaks when memory exceeds the limit [#50337](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50337) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
```

    - Fix the issue that `CAST(AS DATETIME)` might lose time precision under certain circumstances [#49555](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49555) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)
    - Fix the issue that parallel `Apply` might generate incorrect results when the table has a clustered index [#51372](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51372) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
    - Fix the issue that `ALTER TABLE ... COMPACT TIFLASH REPLICA` might incorrectly end when the primary key type is `VARCHAR` [#51810](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51810) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish)

> 

Author: ```suggestion
<!-- hfxsd -->
    - Fix the issue that the `SET` statement does not take effect when it appears on the first line of an explicit transaction [#51387](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51387) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix the issue that querying JSON of `BINARY` type might cause an error in some cases [#51547](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51547) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix the issue that TTL does not handle daylight saving time jumps correctly when calculating expiration times [#51675](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51675) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
    - Fix the issue that the `SURVIVAL_PREFERENCES` attribute of the `SHOW CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY` statement is not displayed under certain circumstances [#51699](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51699) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
    - Fix the issue that the configuration file does not take effect when there is an invalid configuration item in the configuration file [#51399](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51399) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
```

    In v8.0.0, TiProxy becomes generally available and enhances the automatic generation of signature certificates and monitoring functions.

    The usage scenarios of TiProxy are as follows:

    - During maintenance operations such as rolling restarts, rolling upgrades, and scaling-in in a TiDB cluster, changes occur in the TiDB servers which result in interruptions in connections between clients and the TiDB servers. By using TiProxy, connections can be smoothly migrated to other TiDB servers during these maintenance operations so that clients are not affected.
    - Client connections to a TiDB server cannot be dynamically migrated to other TiDB servers. When the workload of multiple TiDB servers is unbalanced, it might result in a situation where the overall cluster resources are sufficient, but certain TiDB servers experience resource exhaustion leading to a significant increase in latency. To address this issue, TiProxy provides dynamic migration for connection, which allows connections to be migrated from one TiDB server to another without any impact on the clients, thereby achieving load balancing for the TiDB cluster.

>   TiProxy has been integrated into TiUP, TiDB Operator, and TiDB Dashboard, making it easy to configure, deploy and maintain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  TiProxy has been integrated into TiUP, TiDB Operator, and TiDB Dashboard, making it easy to configure, deploy, and maintain.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md).

* Global Sort becomes generally available (GA), improving the performance and stability of  `IMPORT INTO` significantly [#45719](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45719) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

    Before v7.4.0, when executing `IMPORT INTO` tasks using the [Distributed eXecution Framework (DXF)](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md), TiDB only locally sorts part of the data before importing it into TiKV due to limited local storage space. This results in significant overlap of the imported data in TiKV, requiring TiKV to perform additional compaction operations during import and affecting the TiKV performance and stability.

>     With the Global Sort experimental feature introduced in v7.4.0, TiDB can temporarily store the data to be imported in an external storage (such as Amazon S3) for global sorting before importing it into TiKV, which eliminates the need for TiKV compaction operations during import. In v8.0.0, Global sorting becomes GA. This feature reduces the resource consumption of TiKV and significantly improves the performance and stability of `IMPORT INTO`. If you enable the Global Sort, each `IMPORT INTO` task supports importing data within 40 TiB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    With the Global Sort experimental feature introduced in v7.4.0, TiDB can temporarily store the data to be imported in an external storage (such as Amazon S3) for global sorting before importing it into TiKV, which eliminates the need for TiKV compaction operations during import. In v8.0.0, Global Sort becomes GA. This feature reduces the resource consumption of TiKV and significantly improves the performance and stability of `IMPORT INTO`. If you enable the Global Sort, each `IMPORT INTO` task supports importing data within 40 TiB.
```

   For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-global-sort.md).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v7.6.0 to the current version (v8.0.0). If you are upgrading from v7.5.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

> - Prohibit setting [`require_secure_transport`](/system-variables.md#require_secure_transport-new-in-v610) to `ON` in Security Enhanced Mode (SEM) to prevent potential connectivity issues for users. [#47665](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47665) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
> - DM removes the fixed secret key for encryption and decryption and enables you to customize a secret key for encryption and decryption. If encrypted passwords are used in [data source configurations](/dm/dm-source-configuration-file.md) and [migration task configurations](/dm/task-configuration-file-full.md) before the upgrade, you need to refer to the upgrade steps in [Customize a Secret Key for DM Encryption and Decryption](/dm/dm-customized-secret-key.md) for additional operations. [#9492](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9492) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- Remove witness-related schedulers that are not GA but are enabled by default [#7765](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/7765) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)

### Behavior changes

> * Before v8.0.0, after enabling the acceleration of `ADD INDEX` and `CREATE INDEX` (`tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg = ON`), the encoded index key ingests data to TiKV with a fixed concurrency of `16`, which cannot be dynamically adjusted according to the downstream TiKV capacity. Starting from v8.0.0, you can adjust the concurrency using the [`tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt) system variable. The default value is `4`. Compared with the previous default value of `16`, the new default value reduces performance when ingesting indexed key-value pairs. You can adjust this system variable based on the workload of your cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Prohibit setting [`require_secure_transport`](/system-variables.md#require_secure_transport-new-in-v610) to `ON` in Security Enhanced Mode (SEM) to prevent potential connectivity issues for users. [#47665](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47665) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
* DM removes the fixed secret key for encryption and decryption and enables you to customize a secret key for encryption and decryption. If encrypted passwords are used in [data source configurations](/dm/dm-source-configuration-file.md) and [migration task configurations](/dm/task-configuration-file-full.md) before the upgrade, you need to refer to the upgrade steps in [Customize a Secret Key for DM Encryption and Decryption](/dm/dm-customized-secret-key.md) for additional operations. [#9492](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9492) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
* Before v8.0.0, after enabling the acceleration of `ADD INDEX` and `CREATE INDEX` (`tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg = ON`), the encoded index key ingests data to TiKV with a fixed concurrency of `16`, which cannot be dynamically adjusted according to the downstream TiKV capacity. Starting from v8.0.0, you can adjust the concurrency using the [`tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt) system variable. The default value is `4`. Compared with the previous default value of `16`, the new default value reduces performance when ingesting indexed key-value pairs. You can adjust this system variable based on the workload of your cluster.
```

    + TiDB Lightning

        - Fix the performance regression issue caused by checking TiKV space [#43636](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43636) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning reports an error when encountering invalid symbolic link files during file scanning [#49423](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49423) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning fails to correctly parse date values containing `0` when `NO_ZERO_IN_DATE` is not included in `sql_mode` [#50757](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50757) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)

## Contributors

We would like to thank the following contributors from the TiDB community:

- [Aoang](https://github.com/Aoang)
- [bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)
- [daemon365](https://github.com/daemon365)
- [eltociear](https://github.com/eltociear)
- [lichunzhu](https://github.com/lichunzhu)
- [jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)
- [pingandb](https://github.com/pingandb)

> - [renovate](https://github.com/renovate)

Author: ```suggestion
```

        - Support creating databases in batch during data restore [#50767](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50767) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Print the information of the slowest Region that affects global checkpoint advancement in logs and metrics during log backups [#51046](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51046) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - Improve the table creation performance of the `RESTORE` statement in scenarios with large datasets [#48301](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48301) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

    + TiCDC

        - Optimize the memory consumption of `RowChangedEvent` to reduce memory consumption when TiCDC replicates data [#10386](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10386) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)
        - Verify that the start-ts parameter is valid when creating and resuming a changefeed task [#10499](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10499) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

>     + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

Author: ```suggestion

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

```

    - Fix the issue that the `LIKE()` function might return wrong results when processing binary collation inputs [#50393](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50393) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)
    - Fix the issue that the `JSON_LENGTH()` function returns wrong results when the second parameter is `NULL` [#50931](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50931) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)
    - Fix the issue that `CAST(AS DATETIME)` might lose time precision under certain circumstances [#49555](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49555) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)
    - Fix the issue that parallel `Apply` might generate incorrect results when the table has a clustered index [#51372](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51372) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
    - Fix the issue that `ALTER TABLE ... COMPACT TIFLASH REPLICA` might incorrectly end when the primary key type is `VARCHAR` [#51810](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51810) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish)

> <!-- Lilian -->

Author: ```suggestion
```

    - Fix the issue that the check on the `NULL` value of the `DEFAULT NULL` attribute is incorrect when exchanging partitioned tables using the `EXCHANGE PARTITION` statement [#47167](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47167) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)
    - Fix the issue that the partition table definition might have wrong behavior when using a non-UTF8 character set [#49251](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49251) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix the issue that the default value of some system variables is displayed incorrectly in the `information_schema.VARIABLES_INFO` table [#49461](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49461) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)
    - Fix the issue that empty strings as database names are not checked in some cases [#45873](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45873) @[yoshikipom](https://github.com/yoshikipom)

> <!-- Oxreon -->

Author: ```suggestion
```

    - Fix the issue that the `SPLIT TABLE ... INDEX` statement might cause TiDB to panic [#50177](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50177) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - Fix the issue that querying a partitioned table of `KeyPartition` type might cause an error [#50206](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50206) [#51313](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51313) [#51196](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51196) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
    - Fix the issue that querying a Hash partitioned table might produce incorrect results [#50427](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50427) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - Fix the issue that opentracing does not work correctly [#50508](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50508) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - Fix the issue that the error message is not complete when `ALTER INSTANCE RELOAD TLS` reports an error [#50699](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50699) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)

> <!-- qiancai -->

Author: ```suggestion
```

    - Fix the issue that the `AUTO_INCREMENT` attribute causes non-consecutive IDs due to unnecessary transaction conflicts when assigning auto-increment IDs [#50819](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50819) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Fix the issue of incomplete stack information in TiDB logs for some errors [#50849](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50849) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Fix the issue of excessive memory usage in some queries when the number in the `LIMIT` clause is too large [#51188](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51188) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - Fix the issue that the TTL feature causes data hotspots due to incorrect data range splitting in some cases [#51527](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51527) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

> <!-- hfxsd -->

Author: ```suggestion
```

    <td>SaaS companies using TiDB as the system of record for their multi-tenant applications often need to store a substantial number of tables. In previous versions, handling table counts in the order of a million or more was feasible, but it had the potential to degrade the overall user experience. TiDB v8.0.0 improves the situation with the following enhancements:
  <ul>
    <li>Introduce a new <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/system-variables#tidb_schema_cache_size-new-in-v800">schema information caching system</a>, incorporating a lazy-loading Least Recently Used (LRU) cache for table metadata and more efficiently managing schema version changes.</li>
    <li>Implement a <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/system-variables#tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue-new-in-v800">priority queue</a> for <code>auto analyze</code>, making the process less rigid and enhancing stability across a wider array of tables.</li>
  </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="1">DB Operations and Observability</td>
    <td>Support monitoring index usage statistics </td>

>     <td>Proper index design is a crucial prerequisite for improving database performance. TiDB v8.0.0 introduces the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/information-schema-tidb-index-usage"><code>INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIDB_INDEX_USAGE</code></a> table and the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/sys-schema"><code>sys.schema_unused_index</code></a> view to provide usage statistics of indexes. This feature helps you assess the efficiency of indexes in the database and optimize the index design.</td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <td>Proper index design is a crucial prerequisite to maintaining database performance. TiDB v8.0.0 introduces the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/information-schema-tidb-index-usage"><code>INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIDB_INDEX_USAGE</code></a> table and the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.0/sys-schema"><code>sys.schema_unused_index</code></a> view to provide usage statistics of indexes. This feature helps you assess the efficiency of indexes in the database and optimize the index design.</td>
```

### System tables

* Add new system tables [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIDB_INDEX_USAGE`](/information-schema/information-schema-tidb-index-usage.md) and [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.CLUSTER_TIDB_INDEX_USAGE`](/information-schema/information-schema-tidb-index-usage.md#cluster_tidb_index_usage) to record index usage statistics on TiDB nodes.
* Add a new system schema [`sys`](/sys-schema.md) and a new view [`sys.schema_unused_index`](/sys-schema.md#schema_unused_index), which records indexes that have not been used since the last start of TiDB.

## Deprecated features

- Starting from v8.0.0, the [`tidb_disable_txn_auto_retry`](/system-variables.md#tidb_disable_txn_auto_retry) system variable is deprecated, and TiDB no longer supports automatic retries of optimistic transactions. As an alternative, when encountering optimistic transaction conflicts, you can capture the error and retry transactions in your application, or use the [Pessimistic transaction mode](/pessimistic-transaction.md) instead.
- Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB no longer supports the TLSv1.0 and TLSv1.1 protocols. You must upgrade TLS to TLSv1.2 or TLSv1.3.

> - Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB Lightning deprecates the [old version of conflict detection](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-physical-import-mode-usage.md#the-old-version-of-conflict-detection-deprecated-in-v800) strategy for the physical import mode, and enables you to control the conflict detection strategy for both logical and physical import modes via the [`conflict.strategy`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) parameter. The [`duplicate-resolution`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) parameter for the old version of conflict detection will be removed in v8.5.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB Lightning deprecates the [old version of conflict detection](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-physical-import-mode-usage.md#the-old-version-of-conflict-detection-deprecated-in-v800) strategy for the physical import mode, and enables you to control the conflict detection strategy for both logical and physical import modes via the [`conflict.strategy`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) parameter. The [`duplicate-resolution`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) parameter for the old version of conflict detection will be removed in a future release.
```

    - When `force-init-stats` is set to `true`, TiDB waits for statistics initialization to finish before providing services during TiDB startup. This setting no longer blocks the startup of HTTP servers, which enables users to continue monitoring [#50854](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50854) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - MemoryTracker can track the memory usage of the `IndexLookup` operator [#45901](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45901) @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)
    - MemoryTracker can track the memory usage of the `MemTableReaderExec` operator [#51456](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51456) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - Support canceling queries that are being spilled [#50511](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50511) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - Support loading Regions in batch from PD to speed up the conversion process from the KV range to Regions when querying large tables [#51326](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51326) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- qiancai -->
- Fix the issue that the `AUTO_INCREMENT` attribute causes non-consecutive IDs due to unnecessary transaction conflicts when assigning auto-increment IDs [#50819](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50819) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
- Fix the issue of incomplete stack information in TiDB logs for some errors [#50849](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50849) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
- Fix the issue of excessive memory usage in some queries when the number in the `LIMIT` clause is too large [#51188](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51188) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
- Fix the issue that the TTL feature causes data hotspots due to incorrect data range splitting in certain scenarios [#51527](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51527) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

```

    - Fix the issue that the `index out of range` error might occur when a query involves JOIN operations [#42588](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42588) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - Fix the issue that getting the default value of a column returns an error if the column default value is dropped [#50043](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50043) [#51324](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51324) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)
    - Fix the issue that wrong results might be returned when TiFlash late materialization processes associated columns [#49241](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49241) [#51204](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51204) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
    - Fix the issue that the `LIKE()` function might return wrong results when processing binary collation inputs [#50393](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50393) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)

>     - Fix the issue that TiDB might crash due to concurrent writes during parallel `Apply` [#50347](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50347) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    - Fix the issue that the `JSON_LENGTH()` function returns wrong results when the second parameter is `NULL` [#50931](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50931) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)

>     - Fix the issue that queries containing `CTE` might cause goroutine leaks when memory exceeds the limit [#50337](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50337) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    - Fix the issue that `CAST(AS DATETIME)` might lose time precision under certain circumstances [#49555](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49555) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)
    - Fix the issue that parallel `Apply` might generate incorrect results when the table has a clustered index [#51372](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51372) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
    - Fix the issue that `ALTER TABLE ... COMPACT TIFLASH REPLICA` might incorrectly end when the primary key type is `VARCHAR` [#51810](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51810) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish)
<!-- Lilian -->

>     - Fix the issue that the check on the NULL value of the 'DEFAULT NULL' attribute is incorrect when exchanging partitioned tables using the `EXCHANGE PARTITION` statement [#47167](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47167) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the check on the `NULL` value of the `DEFAULT NULL` attribute is incorrect when exchanging partitioned tables using the `EXCHANGE PARTITION` statement [#47167](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47167) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)
```

    - Fix the issue that the partition table definition might have wrong behavior when using a non-UTF8 character set [#49251](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49251) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

>     - Fix the issue that the default value of some system variables is displayed incorrectly in the `information_schema.VARIABLES_INFO` table [#49461](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49461) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that incorrect default values are displayed in the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.VARIABLES_INFO` table for some system variables [#49461](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49461) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)
```

>     - Fix the issue that empty strings as database names are not checked in some cases [#45873](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45873) @[yoshikipom](https://github.com/yoshikipom)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that no error is reported when empty strings are used as database names in some cases [#45873](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45873) @[yoshikipom](https://github.com/yoshikipom)
```

    - Fix the issue that opentracing does not work correctly [#50508](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50508) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - Fix the issue that the error message is not complete when `ALTER INSTANCE RELOAD TLS` reports an error [#50699](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50699) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
<!-- qiancai -->
    - Fix the issue that the `AUTO_INCREMENT` attribute causes non-consecutive IDs due to unnecessary transaction conflicts when assigning auto-increment IDs [#50819](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50819) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Fix the issue of incomplete stack information in TiDB logs for some errors [#50849](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50849) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Fix the issue of excessive memory usage in some queries when the number in the `LIMIT` clause is too large [#51188](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51188) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

>     - Fix the issue that the TTL feature causes data hotspots due to incorrect data range splitting in certain scenarios [#51527](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51527) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

Reviewer 2: To make it consistent with wording in other lines.
```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the TTL feature causes data hotspots due to incorrect data range splitting in some cases [#51527](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51527) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
```

    - When `force-init-stats` is set to `true`, TiDB waits for statistics initialization to finish before providing services during TiDB startup. This setting no longer blocks the startup of HTTP servers, which enables users to continue monitoring [#50854](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50854) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - MemoryTracker can track the memory usage of the `IndexLookup` operator [#45901](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45901) @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)
    - MemoryTracker can track the memory usage of the `MemTableReaderExec` operator [#51456](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51456) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - Support canceling queries that are being spilled [#50511](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50511) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - Support loading Regions in batch from PD to speed up the conversion process from the KV range to Regions when querying large tables [#51326](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51326) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)

>     <!-- qiancai -->
>     - Fix the issue that the `AUTO_INCREMENT` attribute causes non-consecutive IDs due to unnecessary transaction conflicts when assigning auto-increment IDs [#50819](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50819) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
>     - Fix the issue of incomplete stack information in TiDB logs for some errors [#50849](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50849) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
>     - Fix the issue of excessive memory usage in some queries when the number in the `LIMIT` clause is too large [#51188](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51188) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
>     - Fix the issue that the TTL feature causes data hotspots due to incorrect data range splitting in certain scenarios [#51527](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51527) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> <!-- qiancai -->
> - Fix the issue that the `AUTO_INCREMENT` attribute causes non-consecutive IDs due to unnecessary transaction conflicts when assigning auto-increment IDs [#50819](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50819) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
> - Fix the issue of incomplete stack information in TiDB logs for some errors [#50849](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50849) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
> - Fix the issue of excessive memory usage in some queries when the number in the `LIMIT` clause is too large [#51188](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51188) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
> - Fix the issue that the TTL feature causes data hotspots due to incorrect data range splitting in certain scenarios [#51527](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51527) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <!-- qiancai -->
    - Fix the issue that the `AUTO_INCREMENT` attribute causes non-consecutive IDs due to unnecessary transaction conflicts when assigning auto-increment IDs [#50819](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50819) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Fix the issue of incomplete stack information in TiDB logs for some errors [#50849](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50849) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Fix the issue of excessive memory usage in some queries when the number in the `LIMIT` clause is too large [#51188](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51188) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - Fix the issue that the TTL feature causes data hotspots due to incorrect data range splitting in certain scenarios [#51527](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51527) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
```

修复使用非 UTF8 字符集时，分区表定义可能有错误行为的问题 [#49251](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49251) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
修复对于一些系统变量的默认值在 `information_schema.VARIABLES_INFO` 表中显示错误的问 [#49461](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49461) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)
修复一些情况下没有对空字符串作为数据库名进行检查的问题 [#45873](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45873) @[yoshikipom](https://github.com/yoshikipom)
修复 `BIT` 类型数据参与 `REVERSE` 函数运算时可能会报错的问题 [#50855](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50855) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)
<!-- Oxreon -->
    - Fix the issue that the `SPLIT TABLE ... INDEX` statement might cause TiDB to panic [#50177](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50177) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - Fix the issue that querying a partitioned table of `KeyPartition` type might cause an error [#50206](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50206) [#51313](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51313) [#51196](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51196) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

>     - Fix the issue that querying a partitioned table of Hash Partition type might generate incorrect results [#50427](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50427) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that querying a Hash partitioned table might produce incorrect results [#50427](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50427) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
```

>     -  Fix the issue that Opentracing does not work correctly [#50508](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50508) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    -  Fix the issue that opentracing does not work correctly [#50508](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50508) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
```

>     -  Fix the issue that Opentracing does not work correctly [#50508](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50508) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that Opentracing does not work correctly [#50508](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50508) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
```

    - Fix the issue that the error message is not complete when `ALTER INSTANCE RELOAD TLS` reports an error [#50699](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50699) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)

> <!-- qiancai -->
> 修复 AUTO_INCREMENT 属性在分配自增 ID 时，由于不必要的事务冲突导致 ID 不连续的问题 [#50819](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50819) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
> 修复 TiDB 日志中某些报错栈信息不完全的问题 [#50849](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50849) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
> 修复系统变量 @@tidb_server_memory_limit 更新时，一些内部状态没有及时更新的问题 [#48180](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48180) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
> 修复当 `LIMIT` 子句的数字过大时，一些查询的内存使用过大的问题 [#51188](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51188) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
> 修复 TTL 功能在某些情况下因没有正确切分数据范围而造成热点的问题 [#51527](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51527) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- qiancai -->
    - Fix the issue that the `AUTO_INCREMENT` attribute causes non-consecutive IDs due to unnecessary transaction conflicts when assigning auto-increment IDs [#50819](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50819) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Fix the issue of incomplete stack information in TiDB logs for some errors [#50849](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50849) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Fix the issue of excessive memory usage in some queries when the number in the `LIMIT` clause is too large [#51188](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51188) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - Fix the issue that the TTL feature causes data hotspots due to incorrect data range splitting in certain scenarios [#51527](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51527) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
```

<!-- hfxsd -->
    - Fix the issue that the `SET` statement does not take effect when it appears on the first line of an explicit transaction [#51387](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51387) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix the issue that querying JSON of `BINARY` type might cause an error in some cases [#51547](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51547) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

>     - Fix the issue that TTL does not handle daylight saving time jumps correctly when calculating expiration times [#51675](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51675) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TTL does not handle the transition for daylight saving time adjustments correctly when calculating expiration times [#51675](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51675) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
```

>     - Fix the issue that the `SURVIVAL_PREFERENCES` attribute of the `SHOW CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY` statement is not displayed under certain circumstances [#51699](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51699) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the `SURVIVAL_PREFERENCES` attribute might not appear in the output of the `SHOW CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY` statement under certain conditions [#51699](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51699) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
```

>     - Fix the issue that the configuration file does not take effect when there is an invalid configuration item in the configuration file [#51399](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51399) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the configuration file does not take effect when there is an invalid configuration item [#51399](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51399) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
```
